 (CNN)Here's a look at the life of former British Prime Minister Tony Blair.PersonalBirth date: May 6, 1953Birth place: Edinburgh, ScotlandBirth name: Anthony Charles Lynton BlairRead MoreFather: Leo Charles Blair, a lawyerMother: Hazel (Corscadden) BlairMarriage: Cherie (Booth) Blair (1980-present)Children: Leo, Kathryn, Nicholas and EuanEducation: St. John's College, Oxford, B.A., 1975Religion: Roman Catholic Photos: Cherie Blair: In the spotlight Photos: Cherie Blair: In the spotlightCherie Blair: In the spotlight – Cherie Blair is probably best known as the wife of former British Prime Minister Tony Blair. But since leaving England's most famous political address, she has become a champion for women's rights and education around the globe. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Cherie Blair: In the spotlightCherie Blair: In the spotlight – Blair hugs her husband outside 10 Downing Street on May 2, 1997 following the Labour Party's victory in the country's general election. But Blair tells CNN that when she met a young Tony Blair while training to be a lawyer, he didn't leave a good impression. "I thought he's just another one of these public school boys but then we worked together and ... he made a different impression on me."Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Cherie Blair: In the spotlightCherie Blair: In the spotlight – The prominent British barrister says husband Tony has always been a hands-on father sharing parenting duties equally with her while she continued to advance her career as a barrister. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Cherie Blair: In the spotlightCherie Blair: In the spotlight – As her spouse rose in the political ranks, Blair -- who professionally goes by her maiden name of "Cherie Booth" -- carved out a successful career first as an attorney, then in 1995 (pictured here with her family) she received the senior advocate status of Queen's Counsel. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Cherie Blair: In the spotlightCherie Blair: In the spotlight – While living at Downing Street, Blair felt her horizons widen as she realized how "privileged" she was. It reinvigorated her passion for women's rights and her continued fight for gender equality.Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Cherie Blair: In the spotlightCherie Blair: In the spotlight – In 2008, she established the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women aimed at providing education and financial aid to female entrepreneurs internationally. With projects in Ghana, Tanzania and Rwanda, the foundation continues to empower local women with the necessary tools to enhance their businesses. Here Blair visits a women's initiative center in India in March 2013. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Cherie Blair: In the spotlightCherie Blair: In the spotlight – Cherie Blair poses with president of the NGO 'Fondation Espoir et Vie' Pauline Lambou Ngouanfou during the New York Forum Africa in Libreville on June 15, 2013. The forum, dedicated to the economic development of Africa, brings together nearly 700 economic policymakers.Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Cherie Blair: In the spotlightCherie Blair: In the spotlight – Blair says she hopes she will be remembered "as someone who tried to do her best, and who fought for the causes she believed in.... I think on my gravestone, I'd like it to say 'Cherie Blair, wife, mother and feminist'."Hide Caption 8 of 8Other FactsAlthough born in Scotland, Blair spent most of his childhood in Durham, England.His son, Leo, was the first baby born to a serving prime minister in 150 years.  In his youth, acted in plays and sang in a rock band.Blair moved the Labour Party to a more centrist position by reducing influence of trade unions and dropping the Party's goal of "collective ownership."The Labour Party's first prime minister to serve two successive terms.JUST WATCHEDTony Blair on ISIS fight, UK politics, TrumpReplayMore Videos ...MUST WATCHTony Blair on ISIS fight, UK politics, Trump 11:24JUST WATCHEDTony Blair: Terrorists not always poor, often well-educatedReplayMore Videos ...MUST WATCHTony Blair: Terrorists not always poor, often well-educated 03:58READ: The clear lesson of Iraq warTimeline1976-1983 - After finishing his law studies at Oxford, practices as a barrister in London.1982 - Loses an attempt to win a seat in parliament for the district of Beaconsfield.1983 - Wins a seat in parliament for Sedgefield, near Durham.1984-1988 - Front bench spokesman for Labour Party.1988 - Is promoted to the shadow cabinet as shadow secretary of energy. The shadow party is the main opposition party that monitors and polices the official cabinet. 1992 - Is appointed shadow home secretary. July 21, 1994 - Becomes the youngest leader of the Labour Party after previous leader John Smith dies of a heart attack.May 1997 - Blair leads the Labour Party to win 419 seats in the House of Commons and its first electoral victory since 1979. Blair becomes prime minister, succeeding John Major.June 7, 2001 - Re-elected.October 19, 2003 - Blair is hospitalized after suffering irregular heart rhythms.May 5, 2005 - Re-elected to a third term.December 14, 2006 - Blair becomes the first serving prime minister questioned as part of a criminal inquiry; police speak with Blair regarding a "cash for honors" inquiry, in which political parties are accused of loans from donors in return for political appointments. Blair is questioned as a witness.May 3, 2007 - Blair's Labour party suffers losses in local elections in England as well as national elections in Scotland and Wales.  May 10, 2007 - Blair announces he will tender his resignation to the Queen on June 27, 2007.June 24, 2007 - Blair hands over leadership of the Labour Party to Gordon Brown during a conference of party members. Brown will become prime minister when Blair tenders his resignation to the Queen.June 27, 2007 - Tenders his resignation to Queen Elizabeth. Hours later, Blair is appointed by the Quartet (the United States, Russia, the European Union and the United Nations) as special envoy to the Middle East. His job will require he "mobilize international assistance to the Palestinians;" help gain support in addressing the Palestinians' governance needs; create plans to help Palestinians develop economically; and work with other countries "as appropriate in support of the agreed Quartet objectives."2008 - Establishes the Africa Governance Initiative. March 7, 2008 - Yale University announces that Blair has been named the Howland Distinguished Fellow for the 2008-2009 school year. He will participate in seminars and on-campus activities throughout the year.May 30, 2008 - Blair launches The Tony Blair Faith Foundation. Its goal is to encourage "inter-faith initiatives to tackle global poverty and to improve understanding of the great religions through education at every level."January 13, 2009 - Is awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by US President George W. Bush. February 2009 - Opens an economic and political consulting firm called Tony Blair Associates (TBA).January 29, 2010 - Blair is questioned by Britain's Iraq Inquiry about decisions he made leading up to the US-led invasion of Iraq. Blair defends his decision to support the war. September 1, 2010 - Publishes his memoir, "A Journey."January 21, 2011 - Blair testifies before the Iraq Inquiry for a second time to clear up inconsistencies in his previous testimony.May 27, 2015 - Writes to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to say he will be stepping down from his post with the Quartet. October 25, 2015 - On CNN's Fareed Zakaria GPS, Blair says he's sorry for "mistakes" made in the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, but he doesn't regret bringing down dictator Saddam Hussein.July 6, 2016 - The results of the UK's inquiry into the invasion of Iraq are released. The report finds that the war was based on flawed intelligence and was launched before diplomatic options were exhausted. Chairman John Chilcot says Blair was warned of the risks of regional instability and the rise of terrorism before the invasion of Iraq, but pressed on regardless.