 (CNN)A new NBA margin of victory record was set on Thursday, as the Memphis Grizzlies obliterated the Oklahoma City Thunder 152-79 in Tennessee.The 73-point win beats the previous 68-point record set by the Cleveland Cavaliers which had stood for almost 30 years -- a 148-80 mauling of the Miami Heat on December 17, 1991.Led by Jaren Jackson Jr. with 27 points, nine Grizzlies players scored double figures as a new franchise points record was also set. It will come as no great consolation to the Thunder -- reeling from an eighth straight loss that leaves them 6-16 -- but having trailed by 78 points with just over three minutes to go, it could have been worse.Even with 30 seconds to play the Grizzlies held a 75-point lead, but the Thunder's Ty Jerome sunk the final shot of the game to chip the advantage down to 73. Read MoreSimilarly, the Thunder will take no comfort in the knowledge that the Grizzlies inflicted all that damage without star guard Ja Morant, who was absent through injury. READ: Enes Kanter says he will change his name to Enes Kanter Freedom and become US citizenThe Grizzlies' John Konchar going to the hoop."Tonight is not necessarily who we are," Thunder coach Mark Daigneault told reporters. "I think we've definitely shown that from a competitive standpoint -- this isn't indicative of who our team is."Competition comes with great joy, and it also comes with grief and frustration and anger ... It's why the joy feels so good because, when you get punched and you taste your own blood, it doesn't feel right."Jubilation was the only mood for the Grizzlies in a third straight win which lifts them to 12-10, sweetened by the fact that the historic blowout took place in front of their own fans at the FedExForum. Franchise records tumbled aplenty on the night -- most points in a game, most bench points in a game (93), most assists (41) and highest field goal percentage (62.5%).Grizzlies forward Jackson Jr. rebounds the ball in the blowout.Not that Taylor Jenkins seemed overly bothered by such statistics, with the Grizzlies coach saying after the game that "records are meant to be broken." "Franchise records are obviously great and I'm proud of our guys that they don't think about that," Jenkins told reporters."We're just motivated by our standards every single night and tonight that was on full display offensively and defensively."Records are records and records are meant to be broken. What motivates us every day is just playing our best basketball, and I think over the last three games we've done a great job of that.""Good win," Jackson Jr. said in a slight understatement. "We put it together, stuck to the game plan and stayed engaged the whole game. Credit to the coach and everybody hooping. "Just another game, it goes in the left column," Jackson Jr. added.Jackson Jr. led the way for Memphis with 27 points on the night.Suns march onElsewhere in the NBA, the Phoenix Suns continued their league rampage with a 114-103 victory over the Detroit Pistons.Despite the absence of top scorer Devin Booker, an 18th consecutive win set a new franchise record for the Western Conference leaders, as Cam Johnson and Cameron Payne both scored 19 points. The Milwaukee Bucks, on the other hand, could not get by without their star man. Missing Giannis Antetokounmpo through injury, they saw their eight-game win streak snapped by the previously struggling Toronto Raptors in a 97-93 defeat.