 (CNN)Condo owners in the South Florida tower that collapsed last week were facing assessments for millions of dollars worth of repairs -- with payments set to begin a week after the building's deadly fall.The Champlain Towers South condo association approved a $15 million assessment in April to complete repairs required under the county's 40-year recertification process, according to documents obtained by CNN. The documents show that more than two years after association members received a report about "major structural damage" in the building, they began the assessment process to pay for necessary repairs. Owners would have to pay assessments ranging from $80,190 for one-bedroom units to $336,135 for the owner of the building's four-bedroom penthouse, a document sent to the building's residents said. The deadline to pay upfront or choose paying a monthly fee lasting 15 years was July 1.Letter sent months before deadly Florida collapse warned damage to condo building was acceleratingAn itemized list of planned repairs included new pavers, planter landscape and waterproofing -- addressing some of the issues noted in a 2018 engineer's report, which warned how leaking water was leading to deteriorating concrete. The most costly project was "facade, balcony and railing repairs" for $3.4 million.  Read MoreThe 2018 report, prepared for the condo association, had previously estimated that necessary repairs to the Surfside, Florida, building would cost about $9.1 million. It's unclear whether the issues identified by Frank Morabito, the structural engineer who produced the report, contributed to the disaster.  In an April letter to homeowners, condo association President Jean Wodnicki described the progression of decay at the building, saying, "the observable damage such as in the garage has gotten significantly worse since the initial inspection." She noted that the "concrete deterioration is accelerating. The roof situation got much worse, so extensive roof repairs had to be incorporated." "Other previously identified projects have been rolled under the main project. New problems have been identified. Also, costs go up every year," the letter states. "This is how we have gone from the estimated $9,128,433.60 cited in Morabito's 2018 report, to the much larger figure we have today."The big assessment bill came as an unwelcome surprise to some owners of the building's 136 units. "We struggled with it and everything," said Isabel Aguero, who owns an 11th-floor condo in the part of the building that remains standing. She said she thought most of the line items appeared to be more for aesthetic improvements instead of structural fixes to the building -- such as $722,000 for "hallway and public area renovations." As engineers hunt for answers in the Surfside building collapse, signs point to the building's lower reachesAguero and her husband decided to go with the monthly payment and sent in the paperwork on June 23 so the association would start adding $593 to their homeowner fees, they said. Early the next morning, the building collapsed. The couple bought their condo two years ago with plans to retire there, but they said they hadn't spent much time in it, as their renovations and furniture deliveries were delayed by the coronavirus pandemic. Their son, Albert Aguero, was in the tower vacationing with his wife and two children when it collapsed. They woke up to a horrific noise and shaking, and "when we opened the door, we realized just how much damage had occurred," he said. "The apartment to the left looked like it had been sheared in half."He said that there had been work on the building's roof since earlier this year "that would wake us up every morning with drilling." But larger structural construction had not yet begun, according to a statement from the engineering firm that conducted the 2018 report.Albert said he was distressed reading the warnings in the 2018 report, which he never saw until after the building fell. "I was pretty angry at that point, angry that innocent lives had to be lost," he said. Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiExcavators dig through the remains from the Champlain Towers South building on July 9.Hide Caption 1 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiWooden hearts with victims' names have been put up at the memorial site near the building's remains.Hide Caption 2 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiNuns from the St. Joseph's Catholic Church pray at the memorial site on July 7.Hide Caption 3 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiA member of a search team moves rubble at the site on July 7. Authorities transitioned from search and rescue to search and recovery after determining "the viability of life in the rubble" was low, Miami-Dade County Fire Chief Alan Cominsky said.Hide Caption 4 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiWorkers gather for a moment of silence and prayer after it was announced that rescue efforts would transition to a recovery operation.Hide Caption 5 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiA member of Miami-Dade Fire Rescue hugs victims' family members and friends at the memorial near the collapsed building.Hide Caption 6 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiCrews work at the site of the collapsed building on July 6.Hide Caption 7 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiMembers of a search-and-rescue team comb through the debris on July 5.Hide Caption 8 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiA memorial is seen near the spot where the building used to be. The rest of the building was demolished on July 4 so that authorities could continue to look for survivors safely, officials said.Hide Caption 9 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiA controlled explosion brings down the unstable remains of the building on July 4.Hide Caption 10 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiA woman cries as she watches the rest of Champlain Towers South be demolished.Hide Caption 11 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiPeople watch a cloud of dust form as the rest of the building is demolished.Hide Caption 12 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiKarol Casper places a flower on the memorial wall set up near the building.Hide Caption 13 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiPeople stop at a makeshift memorial near the site.Hide Caption 14 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiSearch-and-rescue personnel work at the site on July 2.Hide Caption 15 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiResidents of the Crestview Towers Condominium carry their belongings as they leave their building in North Miami Beach, Florida, on July 2. The building, about 6 miles from Surfside, was deemed to be structurally and electrically unsafe based on a delinquent recertification report for the almost 50-year-old building. The city said the move was out of an "abundance of caution," as area authorities check high-rise condo buildings following the Surfside collapse.Hide Caption 16 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiPresident Joe Biden and first lady Jill Biden visit a memorial near the partially collapsed building on July 1. Biden traveled to Surfside to console families still waiting on news of their loved ones. Those meetings were closed to the press.Hide Caption 17 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiA Coast Guard boat patrols the water ahead of Biden's visit.Hide Caption 18 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiNBA basketball player Udonis Haslem, left, and Miami-Dade County Mayor Daniella Levine Cava arrive to pay their respects at a memorial near the building on June 30.Hide Caption 19 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiSearch-and-rescue teams look through the rubble of Champlain Towers South on June 29.Hide Caption 20 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiPeople take part in a twilight vigil near the building on June 28.Hide Caption 21 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiMore than 3 million pounds of concrete have already been removed during the rescue operation, said Miami-Dade Fire Chief Alan Cominsky.Hide Caption 22 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiA woman puts flowers in a barricade as she pays her respects near the building.Hide Caption 23 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiPassersby look at photos of missing people.Hide Caption 24 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiWorkers search through the rubble on June 26.Hide Caption 25 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiEliagne Sanchez and K. Parker lay flowers on the beach near the partially collapsed building.Hide Caption 26 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiSmoke rises as rescuers continued to search for survivors on June 26.Hide Caption 27 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiPeople stand near the building on June 25.Hide Caption 28 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiMourners light candles on the beach near the building.Hide Caption 29 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiMembers of a search-and-rescue team work in the rubble.Hide Caption 30 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiPeople pray together on the beach near the collapsed building.Hide Caption 31 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiFirefighters battle a blaze at the collapse site.Hide Caption 32 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiPeople hug June 25 as they wait for news about their relatives at a community center in Surfside.Hide Caption 33 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiRescue personnel search through the building's rubble on June 25.Hide Caption 34 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiToby Fried holds up a picture of her missing brother, Chaim Rosenberg, outside the Surfside Community Center on June 25.Hide Caption 35 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiRescue workers use a crane to inspect the damage.Hide Caption 36 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiAriana Hevia, center, stands with Sean Wilt near the partially collapsed building on June 25. Hevia's mother, Cassandra Statton, lives in the building.Hide Caption 37 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiRescue workers arrive to the scene with dogs on June 25.Hide Caption 38 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiFaydah Bushnaq, center, is hugged by Maria Fernanda Martinez as they stand on the beach near the building. Bushnaq, who was vacationing in South Florida, stopped to write "pray for their souls" in the sand.Hide Caption 39 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiThe arm of an earth mover is seen during the search operations.Hide Caption 40 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiRescue personnel work at the site on June 24.Hide Caption 41 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiYube Pettingill talks to the media. Two of her family members were still missing.Hide Caption 42 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiThis photo was tweeted by Miami-Dade Fire Rescue after the building collapsed.Hide Caption 43 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiDisplaced residents are taken to a nearby hotel in Surfside.Hide Caption 44 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiThe partial collapse left huge piles of rubble and materials dangling from what remained of the structure.Hide Caption 45 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiFlorida Gov. Ron DeSantis, at center in the red tie, arrives to speak to the media on June 24. "We still have hope to be able to identify additional survivors," DeSantis told reporters near the scene. "The state of Florida, we're offering any assistance that we can."Hide Caption 46 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiDebris dangles from the building on June 24.Hide Caption 47 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiPeople hug at a family reunification center where evacuees were staying in Surfside.Hide Caption 48 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiThe cause of the collapse wasn't immediately known.Hide Caption 49 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiJennifer Carr sits with her daughter as they and other evacuees wait for news at the family reunification center in Surfside.Hide Caption 50 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiRescue personnel search through the rubble with dogs.Hide Caption 51 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiPolice stand guard on the day the building collapsed.Hide Caption 52 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiPeople on the beach look at the building after the partial collapse.Hide Caption 53 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiThe building was constructed in 1981, according to online Miami-Dade property records.Hide Caption 54 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiPeople lie on cots at the family reunification center in Surfside.Hide Caption 55 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiThe beachfront community is a few miles north of Miami Beach.Hide Caption 56 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiMore than 80 rescue units responded to the scene, Miami-Dade Fire Rescue said.Hide Caption 57 of 58 Photos: Deadly condo collapse near MiamiRescue personnel work at the site of the partial collapse.Hide Caption 58 of 58Earlier this month, Francesco Cordaro paid more than $95,000 for his portion of the millions in special fees related to the repairs and recertification. On Thursday, Cordaro and his wife watched on TV from Staten Island, New York, as their apartment building crashed to the ground. They were in Surfside last month and had planned to move to South Florida for retirement, he said. "The ocean view, the size, the location -- I loved everything about that apartment," the 65-year-old said. "All my dreams are shattered."The couple purchased the unit in January 2019. "We knew that we were going to have the recertification, but no other specific claims were made at that time about any structural problems," Cordaro said.He has not hired a lawyer out of respect for the tower's missing residents, he said, but he believes someone should be held financially liable. "Certainly, someone needs to pay for this," he said. "I don't know who, what, when, but certainly someone has to pay."Condo association under scrutinySince the collapse, the condo association has received scrutiny for the yearslong delay between the alarming 2018 report and the building's overhaul. Its representatives have noted that they were delayed by the pandemic and had to take the time to issue competitive bids for the work."We have board members who are living here, had their families living here, and are among the missing, so if they knew there was a hazardous issue, they certainly would have taken care of it," Donna DiMaggio Berger, an attorney for the Champlain Towers condo association, told CNN on Friday. One official from the town of Surfside had previously assured the association that their building was "in very good shape" in November 2018, meeting minutes obtained by CNN show -- even though he had received the report about structural damage two days earlier. Rosendo Prieto, who worked as the town's building official at the time, made the comments at a meeting of the tower's condo association more than two years before the building's collapse, according to minutes from the November 15, 2018, meeting. The death toll from the Florida condo collapse reaches 11 as rescuers race to find 150 people still missing"Structural engineer report was reviewed by Mr. Prieto," the minutes said, in an apparent reference to the Morabito report. Although Prieto noted that the report "was not in the format for the 40 year certification he determined the necessary data was collected and it appears the building is in very good shape," the minutes say.A resident of the condo, Susana Alvarez, told NPR that she attended the meeting -- which took place in the building's recreation room -- and remembered a representative of the town saying, "the building was not in bad shape."  Prieto no longer works for Surfside and has not responded to requests for comment from CNN. Two days before the meeting took place, on November 13, 2018, a member of the condo board, Mara Chouela, forwarded Prieto a copy of the structural engineer's report, according to an email released by the town on Saturday. And the day after the meeting, Prieto sent another email to Guillermo Olmedillo, the former town manager, saying the condo board meeting "went very well." "The response was very positive from everyone in the room," Prieto wrote in the November 16 email, which was released by the town Sunday. "All main concerns over their forty year recertification process were addressed."CNN's Daniel Medina contributed to this report. 