Beijing (CNN)Heading into the Winter Olympics, there was much talk of two host cities -- one inside a tightly-sealed bubble where the Games would be held, and one outside, where daily life would go on as normal.But the past two weeks have also shown the world two very different Games: For China, Beijing 2022 was a resounding success that exceeded all expectations. To the rest of the world, it remained a deeply polarizing event, that projected not only China's rising power but also its growing assertiveness, ready to defy and challenge its critics.In its meticulously managed "closed loop," the ubiquitous face masks, endless spraying of disinfectant and rigorous daily testing have paid-off. Infections brought into the country were swiftly identified and contained, allowing the Games to run largely free of Covid even as the Omicron variant raged around the world. In the medal tables, Team China claimed nine golds and a total of 15 medals, delivering its best ever result at a Winter Olympics -- and ranking above the United States. The stellar performances of its new Olympic stars -- from freeski sensation Eileen Gu to snowboard prodigy Su Yiming -- captivated fans in the stands and across the country, drawing an outpouring of pride. JUST WATCHEDVideo: Hear Eileen Gu's remarks about representation after historic Olympic runReplayMore Videos ...MUST WATCHVideo: Hear Eileen Gu's remarks about representation after historic Olympic run 01:29By Wednesday, nearly 600 million people -- or 40% of the Chinese population -- had tuned in to watch the Games on television in China, according to the International Olympic Committee (IOC). And while US viewing figures have been markedly down compared to previous Olympics, the boost in Chinese audiences will likely make Beijing 2022 among the most watched Winter Games in history.Read MoreEven the official mascot Bing Dwen Dwen, a panda wearing an ice shell, turned out to be a domestic success. Having been mostly ignored for more than two years since it was first unveiled, the chubby bear soared in popularity during the Games, routinely trending on Chinese social media. At souvenir stores inside and outside the bubble, people queued for hours -- sometimes in biting cold -- to take home plush toy replicas.Beijing 2022's official mascot Bing Dwen Dwen has become a breakout star at these Games.And for the ruling Communist Party and its supreme leader Xi Jinping, it is the domestic audience that matters the most. Xi personally backed Beijing's bid to host these Games, and made a flurry of visits to the ice rinks and snow slopes to inspect preparation work. The success of the Games present Xi with a moment of national unity as he gears up for an unprecedented third term in power this fall. But for the Chinese government, part of the domestic success also comes from the avoidance of major political scandal or embarrassment. While the doping saga surrounding a teenage Russian figure skater has cast a shadow over the Olympics, it was downplayed inside China. The same was true of criticism of the Games in general, most of which was censored and blocked. JUST WATCHEDVideo: Russian figure skater's entourage under investigationReplayMore Videos ...MUST WATCHVideo: Russian figure skater's entourage under investigation 04:49Early in the Games, many athletes from Western countries were stunned by the stringent Covid restrictions they met upon arrival in Beijing. Some were placed in isolation for weeks after testing positive, while others complained about the bland food served in quarantine. But their criticism -- including an emotional plea for help from a Belgian athlete -- went wholly unreported inside China.Instead, Chinese state media avidly shared social media videos, posts and comments from athletes that portrayed their life inside the Olympic village in a positive light, praising the food, the Covid measures and the friendly volunteers. And much to the relief of government officials in Beijing, not a single athlete or Olympic attendee attempted to use the event to publicly protest China's human rights record -- a hot-button issue in the lead-up to the Olympics (though some have expressed critical views).In December, the United States and its allies declared a diplomatic boycott of Games over China's crackdown on Uyghur Muslims in Xinjiang -- which Washington has labeled a genocide. But apart from the notable absence of Western leaders at the opening ceremony, the impact of the boycott was seldom felt on the ground."You can't write stories about people who aren't in Beijing -- that's the problem with the diplomatic boycott. There's no story once the Games start," said Susan Brownell, an expert on Chinese sports and the Olympic Games at the University of Missouri-St. Louis."I've predicted at the beginning that the political issues would fade into the background and the sports would take the headlines, and that would be the memory that would be left, at least for the general audience. I think that has largely happened," added Brownell. Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFireworks burst over the Beijing National Stadium at the end of the Olympics closing ceremony on Sunday, February 20.Hide Caption 1 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsDancers perform inside the stadium during the closing ceremony.Hide Caption 2 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsThe flags of China and the International Olympic Committee are raised at the start of the closing ceremony.Hide Caption 3 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsThomas Bach, president of the International Olympic Committee, waves the Olympic flag during the ceremony. He passed the flag to the mayors of Milan and Cortina d'Ampezzo. Those cities will host the Winter Games in 2026.Hide Caption 4 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSpectators attend the closing ceremony.Hide Caption 5 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAmerican Vincent Zhou performs during the figure skating gala on February 20. Zhou was unable to compete in the men's singles event after testing positive for Covid-19, and he spent much of the Olympics in quarantine.Hide Caption 6 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAmerican skiing star Mikaela Shiffrin is seen after the mixed team event on February 20. The Americans finished in fourth, dashing Shiffrin's hopes of a medal this year. She won a gold in the 2014 Olympics and a gold and a silver in 2018.Hide Caption 7 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFinnish hockey players celebrate after they defeated the Russian Olympic Committee team 2-1 in the gold-medal game on February 20. It's the first Olympic gold for Finland in men's hockey.Hide Caption 8 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsGermany's Francesco Friedrich, Thorsten Margis, Candy Bauer and Alexander Schueller won gold in the four-man bobsled event on February 20. Friedrich achieved a historic double-double: he's the first driver to win gold in both the two- and four-man events at multiple Olympics.Hide Caption 9 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsJapanese figure skater Kaori Sakamoto takes part in the gala exhibition on February 20.Hide Caption 10 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAmerican cross-country skier Jessie Diggins lies on the snow after crossing the finish line of the 30-kilometer mass start event on February 20. She won the silver, finishing behind Norway's Therese Johaug, and she revealed that she had been suffering from food poisoning just 30 hours beforehand.Hide Caption 11 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAthletes from both teams hug after the curling final between Japan and Great Britain on February 20. It was Great Britain's only gold medal of these Olympics.Hide Caption 12 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsChinese figure skaters Han Cong and Sui Wenjing compete in the pairs event on Saturday, February 19. They finished with a world-record score to capture their first-ever Olympic gold.Hide Caption 13 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsPoland's Magdalena Czyszczoń and Belarus' Maryna Zuyeva lead the pack during the speedskating mass start final on February 19.Hide Caption 14 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsDutch speedskater Irene Schouten celebrates with a teammate after winning gold in the mass start final on February 19. It was her third gold medal of this year's Olympics.Hide Caption 15 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsGreat Britain's Gus Kenworthy crashes during the freeski halfpipe final on February 19. The skiers were facing strong winds during their runs, and several of them commented on the difficult conditions. This was the final Olympics for Kenworthy, who won a silver in 2014.Hide Caption 16 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsThe Swiss bobsled team of Simon Friedli, Adrian Fassler, Fabio Badraun and Andreas Haas races down the track on February 19.Hide Caption 17 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAmericans Elana Meyers Taylor and Sylvia Hoffman celebrate after winning bronze in the two-woman bobsled event on February 19. It was Meyers Taylor's fifth Olympic medal, making her the most decorated Black athlete in Winter Olympics history.Hide Caption 18 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsA course worker removes gate flags after the alpine skiing mixed team event was postponed due to poor weather conditions on February 19.Hide Caption 19 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAmerican figure skating duo Ashley Cain-Gribble and Timothy LeDuc skate in the pairs short program on Friday, February 18. LeDuc became the first openly nonbinary athlete to compete at a Winter Olympics.Hide Caption 20 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsChinese skier Eileen Gu competes in the halfpipe final on February 18. The 18-year-old superstar won gold in the event and finished with three medals in these Olympic Games. She already had won gold in the big air event and silver in the slopestyle.Hide Caption 21 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFinnish goalie Harri Säteri defends his net during a hockey semifinal against Slovakia on February 18. Finland won 2-0.Hide Caption 22 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsBiathletes compete in a mass start event on February 18.Hide Caption 23 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsCanada's Brady Leman, left, and Italy's Simone Deromedis fly through the air during a ski cross race on February 18.Hide Caption 24 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsJamaica's four-man bobsled team, piloted by Shanwayne Stephens, makes a training run on Thursday, February 17. It's the first time Jamaica has had a four-man team compete at the Olympics since 1998.Hide Caption 25 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsKamila Valieva, the Russian figure skater who has been at the center of a doping controversy at the Beijing Winter Olympics, fell multiple times during her free skate on February 17 and finished fourth in the women's singles competition. The 15-year-old star tested positive for a banned substance in December, before the Olympics, and officials are still investigating whether she or her entourage broke anti-doping rules. She was provisionally cleared to compete, but if she had won she would not have awarded the gold until the conclusion of the investigation.Hide Caption 26 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsThe Canadian women's hockey team celebrates after defeating the United States 3-2 in the gold-medal game on February 17. Since women's hockey became an Olympic sport in 1998, only Canada and the United States have won gold. The two countries have played in the gold-medal game in the last four Olympics, with Canada winning three of them.Hide Caption 27 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsRussian figure skater Anna Shcherbakova performs her free skate on February 17. She won the gold while teammate Alexandra Trusova won the silver. Japan's Kaori Sakamoto took the bronze.Hide Caption 28 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsValieva is consoled after her disastrous free skate.Hide Caption 29 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFinland's Jon Sallinen crashes into a cameraman during halfpipe qualification on February 17. Both Sallinen and the cameraman — as well as the video footage — were fine. However, as a result of the crash, Sallinen ended up in last place.Hide Caption 30 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAmerican skier Mikaela Shiffrin reacts after falling in the slalom portion of the combined event on February 17. It was the third event of these Olympics that Shiffrin was unable to finish. She also fell in the giant slalom and missed a gate in the standalone slalom event.Hide Caption 31 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSwiss skier Michelle Gisin competes in the downhill portion of the combined event, which she won for the second straight Olympics. Gisin was 12th after the downhill but dominated in the slalom to move into first.Hide Caption 32 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsRussian freestyle skier Ilia Burov hugs Ukraine's Oleksandr Abramenko as they celebrate medaling in the aerials final on Wednesday, February 16. Burov won the bronze and Abramenko won the silver. Back at home, tensions between their two countries are at their highest in years, with a Russian military buildup spurring fears that there could soon be an attack.Hide Caption 33 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsA waitress wearing protective gear serves a table at a hotel restaurant inside the Olympic bubble on February 16. The Beijing Olympic Committee identified no new Covid-19 cases among Games-related personnel on Wednesday, it said in a statement. It was the first time no new infections had been detected since the beginning of the Winter Olympics, and it followed a steady decline in cases for the past two weeks.Hide Caption 34 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSlovakia's Peter Cehlárik beats American goalie Strauss Mann to score what proved to be the winning shootout goal in their quarterfinal game on February 16.Hide Caption 35 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSilver medalist Nick Goepper, left, and gold medalist Alex Hall — two freestyle skiers from the United States — celebrate after the slopestyle final on February 16. Hall's gold was the first of his career, while it was Goepper's second straight silver in the event. Hide Caption 36 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFrom left, Canada's Charles Hamelin and Jordan Pierre-Gilles and South Korea's Hwang Dae-heon and Park Jang-hyuk compete in the final of the 5,000-meter short track relay race on February 16. Canada finished first ahead of South Korea and Italy.Hide Caption 37 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsUkrainian freestyle skier Oleksandr Abramenko practices ahead of the aerials final on February 16. He would go on to win the silver medal.Hide Caption 38 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSwedish players celebrate after scoring against Canada during a quarterfinal hockey game on February 16. Sweden defeated the reigning world champions 2-0.Hide Caption 39 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsGermany's Francesco Friedrich and Thorsten Margis make their final run in the two-man bobsled on Tuesday, February 15. They won gold as Germany swept the podium. Four years ago, Friedrich also won gold in the two-man and four-man events.Hide Caption 40 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFigure skater Kamila Valieva performs her short program in the women's singles competition on February 15. The Russian, at the center of a doping scandal, put herself in first place and was the favorite heading into the free skate on February 17.Hide Caption 41 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAs soon as she finished her short program, Valieva broke into tears. The crowd was audibly getting behind Valieva, perhaps more so than any other skater, according to CNN staff in the arena.Hide Caption 42 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAmerican speedskater Casey Dawson is followed by teammates Emery Lehman and Ethan Cepuran during the team pursuit semifinals on February 15. They finished with the bronze along with Joey Mantia.Hide Caption 43 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAustrian snowboarder Anna Gasser competes in the big air finals on February 15. She won gold to defend her Olympic title. The big air Olympic venue was built on the site of a former steel mill.Hide Caption 44 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSwiss freestyle skier Mathilde Gremaud, left, hugs China's Eileen Gu after they finished 1-2 in the slopestyle finals on February 15. Gremaud won gold and Gu won silver.Hide Caption 45 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsJapanese speedskaters react as teammate Nana Takagi crashes during the team pursuit final on February 15. Japan was leading Canada and looked on course to win the gold when Takagi got one of her blades caught in the ice on the final corner, causing her to fall and crash into the barriers. Japan finished with the silver.Hide Caption 46 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSwitzerland's Corinne Suter skis in the downhill event on February 15. She won the gold.Hide Caption 47 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsChinese snowboarder Su Yiming performs a trick on his way to winning gold in the big air event on February 15. Su won a silver in the slopestyle earlier in these Games.Hide Caption 48 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsMembers of the Czech Republic team pose for a photo as teammates Dominik Dvorak and Jakub Nosek slide past in a bobsled on Monday, February 14.Hide Caption 49 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsJapan's Satsuki Fujisawa plays with her hair during a curling match against China on February 14. She had a message to herself written on her hand: "I'm a good curler. I have confidence. Let's have fun!"Hide Caption 50 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsChina's Kong Fanyu falls during the aerials final on February 14.Hide Caption 51 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAmerican ice dancers Madison Chock and Evan Bates perform a routine on February 14.Hide Caption 52 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAmerican bobsledders Elana Meyers Taylor, left, and Kaillie Humphries celebrate after winning silver and gold medals, respectively, in the monobob on February 14. They're the first women to win bobsled medals at four consecutive Winter Olympics. Humphries had two golds and a bronze from past Olympic Games. Meyers Taylor had two silvers and a bronze. Hide Caption 53 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFrench snowboarder Lucile Lefevre decided to dress up as a tiger to have some fun in big air qualification. She wasn't going to be able to complete tricks because of a knee injury she suffered earlier in these Olympics. But she was determined to make he "very last competition" a bit more colorful. It's the Year of the Tiger in the Chinese zodiac.Hide Caption 54 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsDutch speedskaters Xandra Velzeboer, Suzanne Schulting, Selma Poutsma and Yara Van Kerkhof react after winning gold in the 3,000-meter short track relay on February 13. They also set an Olympic record in the race.Hide Caption 55 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSnow falls as Canada's Cynthia Appiah competes in the monobob on February 13.Hide Caption 56 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAmerican speedskater Erin Jackson celebrates after winning the 500 meters on February 13. She's the first Black woman to win an individual medal in speedskating at the Olympics, according to Team USA. She's also the first US woman to win a speedskating gold at the Olympics since Bonnie Blair did so in 1994.Hide Caption 57 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsKazakhstan's Akmarzhan Kalmurzayeva makes a practice run ahead of aerials qualification on February 13.Hide Caption 58 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsA man attends a freestyle skiing event that was postponed because of poor weather conditions.Hide Caption 59 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSnow-covered cars are seen from a hotel inside the "closed loop" that separates the Games from the rest of Beijing. It was the first time Beijing had seen snow since the start of the Games.Hide Caption 60 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsCanadian goaltender Eddie Pasquale can't get to a shot by the United States' Ben Meyers during the first period of their hockey game on February 12. The Americans won 4-2.Hide Caption 61 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsThe United States' Lindsey Jacobellis grabs her board as she edges Italy's Michela Moioli to win the mixed team snowboard cross event on February 12. It was reminiscent of the 2006 Olympics, when Jacobellis went for a showoff move on the last jump and then fell, finishing second in the women's event. It was her second gold in Beijing.Hide Caption 62 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFrench biathlete Simon Desthieux warms up before the 10-kilometer sprint on February 12.Hide Caption 63 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFrench ice dancers Guillaume Cizeron and Gabriella Papadakis compete on February 12. The pair set a new world record in the rhythm dance and would go on to win the gold medal.Hide Caption 64 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSwitzerland's women's hockey team prepares to take the ice before its quarterfinal game on February 12. The Swiss defeated the Russian Olympic Committee team 4-2.Hide Caption 65 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsGermany's Axel Jungk makes his last run in the skeleton event on February 11. He finished with the silver.Hide Caption 66 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsJapanese speedskater Miho Takagi leads her team in the team pursuit quarterfinals on February 12. Japan set a new Olympic record and qualified fastest for the semifinals.Hide Caption 67 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSwiss ski jumper Dominik Peter competes in the large hill event on February 11.Hide Caption 68 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsUS snowboarding legend Shaun White gets emotional after his last run in the halfpipe final on February 11. White, the gold-medal winner in 2006, 2010 and 2018, finished fourth in what he said would be his final Olympics.Hide Caption 69 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFans celebrate after China's Yan Wengang won bronze in the men's skeleton event on February 11.Hide Caption 70 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsJapanese snowboarder Ayumu Hirano flies above the halfpipe on his way to winning the gold medal on February 11. On each of his three runs, Hirano landed a triple cork — a three-flip trick that had never even been attempted before in an Olympic final. Hide Caption 71 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSwiss skier Lara Gut-Behrami celebrates with her gold medal after winning the super-G on February 11. It was the third Olympic medal of her career but her first gold.Hide Caption 72 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsCanadian freestyle skier Evan McEachran trains on February 11. The slopestyle course featured a tribute to the Great Wall of China.Hide Caption 73 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsIn this photo taken with a slow shutter speed, German ski jumper Karl Geiger competes in the large hill event on February 11. He ended up winning the bronze.Hide Caption 74 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFinnish cross-country skier Iivo Niskanen reacts after winning the classical 15-kilometer race on February 11.Hide Caption 75 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSouth Korea's Kim Yoo-ran trains for the women's monobob on February 11.Hide Caption 76 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsThe Netherlands' Suzanne Schulting crosses the finish line just ahead of South Korea's Choi Min-jeong to win the 1,000-meter short track final on February 11. Schulting also won the event at the 2018 Olympics.Hide Caption 77 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAfter falling on his third and final run in the halfpipe final, snowboarder Shaun White took off his helmet and waved goodbye to the crowd. He said going into Beijing that this would be his fifth and final Olympics.Hide Caption 78 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsRussian figure skater Kamila Valieva attends a training session on February 11. Valieva, the 15-year-old superstar who helped the Russian Olympic Committee finish first in the team figure skating event, became the center of controversy after it came to light that she failed a drug test in December.Hide Caption 79 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsA worker in a hazmat suit walks through a hotel restaurant in Beijing on February 10. The restaurant is part of what authorities have called a "closed loop" system — a bubble completely cut off from the rest of the city.Hide Caption 80 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsThe United States' Nathan Chen won the gold medal in singles figure skating on February 10. It was the first Olympic gold for Chen, who finished fifth in South Korea four years ago.Hide Caption 81 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsCanada's Lewis Irving competes in the mixed team aerials event on February 10. Canada won the bronze.Hide Caption 82 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSwitzerland's Silvana Tirinzoni yells to her sweepers during a curling match against Great Britain on February 10.Hide Caption 83 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFrom left, the United States' Nick Baumgartner, Japan's Yoshiki Takahara, the United States' Hagen Kearney and Canada's Kevin Hill compete in a snowboard cross race on February 10.Hide Caption 84 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAmerican snowboarding star Chloe Kim reacts after her first of three runs in the halfpipe finals on February 10. She nailed every trick and posted a huge score of 94. It turned out to be the winning run. Kim also won halfpipe gold in 2018.Hide Caption 85 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsDutch speedskater Irene Schouten competes in the 5,000 meters on February 10. Schouten won the event in stunning fashion, breaking a 20-year-old Olympic record set by Germany's Claudia Pechstein at the Salt Lake City Games in 2002.Hide Caption 86 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsJapan's Yuzuru Hanyu, the Olympic champion in 2014 and 2018, falls during his free skate on February 10. He attempted a quadruple axel, a highly difficult move that has never been completed in competition. He finished in fourth place.Hide Caption 87 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsBelarus' Anna Derugo performs a trick as she practices for the mixed team aerials event on February 10.Hide Caption 88 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsOfficials try to separate hockey players from Switzerland (white helmets) and the Russian Olympic Committee during a goalmouth scrum on February 9. It was the first game of the men's hockey tournament.Hide Caption 89 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsGermany's Vinzenz Geiger celebrates after winning gold in a Nordic combined event on February 9. He was 11th after the ski jumping portion of the competition, and he started the cross-country race nearly a minute and a half behind the leader. But he rallied to make up the ground and cross the finish line first.Hide Caption 90 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAustria's Franz-Josef Rehrl prepares for a ski jump as he competes in a Nordic combined event on February 9.Hide Caption 91 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSouth Korea's Hwang Dae-heon, left, crosses the finish line ahead of Canadian Steven Dubois and Russian Semen Elistratov to win the 1,500-meter short track final on February 9.Hide Caption 92 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAmerican snowboarder Shaun White reacts February 9 after finishing his second run on the halfpipe. He had fallen on his first run, and he needed the second run to qualify for the event final.Hide Caption 93 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsA dejected Mikaela Shiffrin sits on the side of the slalom course after she missed a gate on her first run and was disqualified on February 9. The American star was one of the favorites in the event. Her miscue came two days after a shocking fall in the giant slalom.Hide Caption 94 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsGermany's Tobias Wendl and Tobias Arlt celebrate after winning gold in doubles luge on February 9. The pair made history by becoming the first doubles luge team to win three consecutive golds.Hide Caption 95 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFrom left, the United States' Stacy Gaskill, the United States' Lindsey Jacobellis, France's Chloe Trespeuch and Italy's Michela Moioli compete in a snowboard cross semifinal on February 9. Jacobellis would go on to win the event, her first gold medal in her fifth Olympic Games.Hide Caption 96 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAmerican Andrew Blaser races down the track during skeleton training on February 9.Hide Caption 97 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsKnowing he had already clinched the gold in the big air competition, Norwegian freestyle skier Birk Ruud holds his country's flag in his hand as he completes his final jump on February 9.Hide Caption 98 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsWorkers in protective gear disinfect seats after the big air competition on February 9.Hide Caption 99 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAmerican snowboarder Chloe Kim soars through the air during halfpipe qualification on February 9. She finished with the best score of the day. Kim was just 17 years old when she won the halfpipe four years ago in South Korea.Hide Caption 100 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAmerican figure skater Nathan Chen reacts after his short program on February 8. He set a new world record with a score of 113.97.Hide Caption 101 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsGreat Britain's Laura Deas runs down the track at the start of a skeleton training run on February 8.Hide Caption 102 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsA forerunner jumps during an aerials training session on February 8.Hide Caption 103 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFrom left, Russian snowboarders Natalia Soboleva and Polina Smolentsova race each other in the parallel giant slalom on February 8.Hide Caption 104 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsUS skier Jessie Diggins celebrates after winning the bronze medal in the cross-country freestyle sprint on February 8.Hide Caption 105 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsMexican figure skater Donovan Carrillo performs his short program on February 8. Carrillo, Mexico's first Olympic figure skater in 30 years, was also his country's flag bearer in the opening ceremony.Hide Caption 106 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsItaly's Arianna Fontana kisses her gold medal after winning the 500-meter short track race on February 8. She has won more Olympic medals than any short track skater in history.Hide Caption 107 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsGerman luger Natalie Geisenberger reacts February 8 after winning singles gold for the third straight Olympics. Geisenberger is tied with Italy's Armin Zöggeler as the most decorated luger in Olympic history. This was her sixth medal in all and her fifth gold.Hide Caption 108 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsChina's Eileen Gu makes her final run in the big air competition on February 8. Her score on that run lifted her past France's Tess Ledeux to win the gold medal.Hide Caption 109 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsCanada's Jamie Lee Rattray, left, reacts after scoring a goal against the United States during a women's hockey game on February 8. Canada won 4-2.Hide Caption 110 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsJapanese figure skater Yuzuru Hanyu skates on February 8. Hanyu, the defending Olympic champion who also won gold in 2014, was in eighth place after a disappointing short program.Hide Caption 111 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAustrian skier Matthias Mayer successfully defended his Olympic title in the super-G on February 8.Hide Caption 112 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsChinese tennis star Peng Shuai watches the women's big air finals on February 8. Peng was seen sitting alongside Thomas Bach, the president of the International Olympic Committee, who she also had a face-to-face meeting with over the previous weekend. Bach and Peng had agreed to meet during a November video call that came amid an outpouring of global concern about the whereabouts and safety of the athlete.Hide Caption 113 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFrom left, Hungary's Shaolin Sándor Liu gets tangled up with China's Ren Ziwei after crossing the finish line in the 1,000-meter short track final on February 7. Liu crossed the finish line first, but Ren was awarded the gold medal after Liu was given a yellow card and two penalties for illegally changing lanes and causing contact with Ren.Hide Caption 114 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsNorway's Ingrid Landmark Tandrevold competes in the 15-kilometer biathlon on February 7.Hide Caption 115 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAmerican skier Mikaela Shiffrin falls during the giant slalom on February 7. Shiffrin won gold in the event four years ago in South Korea.Hide Caption 116 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsDutch speedskater Ireen Wüst celebrates on the podium after winning the 1,500 meters on February 7. The 35-year-old became the first athlete to win an individual gold medal in five separate Olympics.Hide Caption 117 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsRussian figure skater Kamila Valieva competes in the team event on February 7. The 15-year-old became the first female skater to ever land a quadruple jump at the Olympics, and she helped her team win the gold. But she is now at the center of a drug testing controversy, and the medals will not be awarded until an investigation concludes.Hide Caption 118 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsVolunteers wave flags during a medal ceremony on February 7.Hide Caption 119 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsCanadian hockey player Brianne Jenner, left, faces off against the Russian Olympic Committee's Oxana Bratishcheva during a preliminary round game on February 7. The game was delayed for an hour after the ROC's Covid-19 test results had not arrived on time. When the teams finally played, they wore masks under their cages.Hide Caption 120 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsCanada's Emily Dickson competes in the 15-kilometer biathlon on February 7.Hide Caption 121 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAmerican figure skating pair Alexa Knierim and Brandon Frazier perform during the team event on February 7.Hide Caption 122 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsRussian speedskater Elena Sokhryakova skates past medical personnel as she warms up for the 1,500 meters on February 7.Hide Caption 123 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSwitzerland's Beat Feuz kicks one of his skis in the air after finishing his downhill run on February 7. He won the gold, Switzerland's first in these Olympics. Feuz won a silver and a bronze at the 2018 Winter Games.Hide Caption 124 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsJapan's Ryoyu Kobayashi soars through the air during the normal hill competition on February 6. He became the first ski jumper from his country to win the normal hill event since Yukio Kasaya in 1972.Hide Caption 125 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsNew Zealand snowboarder Zoi Sadowski-Synnott, bottom, is tackled by the United States' Julia Marino and Australia's Tess Coady after her final slopestyle run on February 6. Sadowski-Synnott made history by winning her country's first-ever gold in the Winter Olympics. Marino won the silver and Coady won the bronze.Hide Caption 126 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsChina's Zhu Yi falls during her short program while competing in the team figure skating event on February 6. After finishing last, the US-born skater faced a firestorm of criticism on Chinese social media.Hide Caption 127 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsBritish freestyle skier Leonie Gerken Schofield competes in the women's moguls on February 6.Hide Caption 128 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsJapanese speedskater Seitaro Ichinohe skates in a mostly empty arena during the men's 5,000 meters on February 6.Hide Caption 129 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsRussian Alexander Bolshunov celebrates after winning the gold medal in the skiathlon on February 6.Hide Caption 130 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSkiers leave the Yanqing National Alpine Skiing Center after the men's downhill was postponed due to high winds on February 6.Hide Caption 131 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsJapanese figure skater Yuma Kagiyama competes in the team event on February 6.Hide Caption 132 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsChinese curlers Fan Suyuan, left, and Ling Zhi strategize while competing in a mixed-doubles match against Great Britain on February 6.Hide Caption 133 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsPeople rest in sleep cabins set up for journalists in the media center.Hide Caption 134 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsNorway's Therese Johaug celebrates after crossing the finish line to win the women's skiathlon on February 5. It was the first medal event of these Olympics.Hide Caption 135 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFreestyle skier Dmitriy Reikherd of Kazakhstan performs a trick during the men's moguls competition on February 5.Hide Caption 136 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsChina's Wu Dajing, left, narrowly beats out Italy's Pietro Sighel to win the short track mixed relay on February 5. It was the host nation's first gold medal of these Games.Hide Caption 137 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsDutch speedskater Irene Schouten celebrates after winning the women's 3,000 meters on February 5. Schouten set a new Olympic record in the event, breaking a 20-year-old record set at the 2002 Games in Salt Lake City.Hide Caption 138 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFrance's Anais Chevalier-Bouchet, left, skis during the biathlon mixed relay on February 5. France finished second behind Norway.Hide Caption 139 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsA worker, wearing a protective suit, cleans her hands after administering a Covid-19 test inside the Olympics bubble on February 5. This was the second Olympics to be held during the coronavirus pandemic. As with last year's Summer Olympics in Tokyo, a raft of Covid-19 countermeasures were put into place. Tickets for the Games were not sold to the general public; they were distributed by authorities instead.Hide Caption 140 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsChinese athletes Dinigeer Yilamujian, left, and Zhao Jiawen wave as they place the Olympic flame into a giant snowflake during the opening ceremony on February 4. The choice of Dinigeer and Zhao appeared symbolic and deliberate. Dinigeer is a Uyghur, an ethnic minority in China's far west region of Xinjiang where China has been accused of massive human-rights violations. Zhao is of Han decent, the dominant ethnicity in China.Hide Caption 141 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsPerformers create a flower display with LED lights during the opening ceremony.Hide Caption 142 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsChildren perform during the opening ceremony.Hide Caption 143 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsPerformers take part in the opening ceremony.Hide Caption 144 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsChina's team enters the stadium during the opening ceremony's parade of nations.Hide Caption 145 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsPerformers entertain the audience at the opening ceremony.Hide Caption 146 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsMembers of Team USA pose for a photo during the parade of nations.Hide Caption 147 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFireworks explode over the Beijing National Stadium at the opening ceremony. Beijing is the first city in history to host both a Summer and a Winter Olympics.Hide Caption 148 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsAthletes inside a bus wave to residents on the street as they head to the stadium for the opening ceremony.Hide Caption 149 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsFrance's Sacha Theocharis takes part in a moguls practice session on February 4.Hide Caption 150 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSome competition actually began in the days before the opening ceremony. Here, American Nathan Chen competes in the team figure-skating event on February 4. He put the United States in the lead with his short program.Hide Caption 151 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsCanada's Rebecca Johnston, center, scores a goal against Switzerland during a preliminary hockey game on February 3. The Canadians won 12-1.Hide Caption 152 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsA robot delivers a woman's lunch in the media dining area on February 2. In a bid to keep the Games Covid-free — and to prevent the virus from spreading into the wider population — Chinese authorities constructed a "closed loop system" that separated the Games from the host city.Hide Caption 153 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsA luger trains in Beijing on February 2.Hide Caption 154 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsSpeedskaters with the Italian Olympic team practice on February 2.Hide Caption 155 of 156 Photos: The best photos of the Beijing Winter OlympicsA worker wearing a protective suit sprays disinfectant at a screening checkpoint for arriving athletes on February 1.Hide Caption 156 of 156Going on the offensiveBut Beijing wasn't just waiting for the political controversies to fade. It has gone on the offensive, using the Games to push its own political message and hit back at criticism -- despite having repeatedly derided Western governments for "politicizing" the Olympics. As the torch relay got underway right before the Games, state media reported a Chinese soldier who was involved in a deadly border clash with Indian troops was among the chosen few to carry the Olympic flame. The report sparked immediate outrage in India, prompting New Delhi to join the US-led diplomatic boycott.The next day, in a symbolic end to the highly choreographed opening ceremony, Chinese organizers chose Dinigeer Yilamujiang, a little-known Uyghur cross-country skier, to deliver the flame to the Olympic cauldron. (Her name could also be written as Dilnigar Ilhamjan.) To many outside of China, it was seen as a deliberate attempt by Beijing to confront critics over its treatment of the Uyghurs.Torch bearers Dinigeer Yilamujiang and Jiawen Zhao of Team China hold the Olympic flame during the opening ceremony on February 4.Then there came the high-profile appearance of Peng Shuai, a Chinese tennis star and three-time Olympian who has been at the center of global concern after she was silenced for accusing a former top Communist Party leader of sexual assault.At these Games, Peng met IOC President Thomas Bach for dinner, gave a sit-down interview to French sport news site L'Equipe -- during which she denied she ever accused anyone of sexual assault or disappeared from the public eye -- and was seen in the stands watching Team China compete in events like curling, figure skating and freestyle skiing.Her flurry of activities made headlines around the world -- and like her previous public appearances, they failed to quell broader concerns about her freedoms. Inside China, however, none of that was reported by state media or shared on social media, where Peng's name remains censored.JUST WATCHEDVideo: Hear details of rare Peng Shuai interview with Western mediaReplayMore Videos ...MUST WATCHVideo: Hear details of rare Peng Shuai interview with Western media 02:05And as the Olympics approached its end, the political messaging got more pugnacious.At a press conference Thursday, Yan Jiarong, a spokesperson for the Beijing Organizing Committee for the Olympics Games (BOCOG), was asked whether Taiwan's delegation would appear at the closing ceremony Sunday.Yan, a former Chinese representative to the United Nations, took the opportunity to assert China sovereignty claims over the self-ruling democracy. "What I want to say is that there is only one China in the world. Taiwan is an indivisible part of China," she said.She also jumped in on CNN's question about whether the Olympics uniforms were made by forced labor in Xinjiang, calling accusations of forced labor "a lie made up by forces with ulterior motives."Fame and fury: China's wildly different reactions to US-born Olympians Yan's comments -- which appeared to be an outright violation of Olympic rules about political neutrality -- prompted a rare rebuke from Bach, the IOC president."We were in touch with the Beijing Organizing Committee for the Olympic Games (BOCOG) immediately after this press conference," Bach said, "and both organizations, BOCOG and the IOC, have restated the unequivocal commitment to remain politically neutral as it is required by the Olympic charter."While the Chinese government may see these combative remarks as a propaganda victory, for many in the international audience, they only serve as a reminder of how politically fraught these Games are, despite the organizational success and sporting achievements."The Games as a standalone event have been run very well, and China did well. The organization has been phenomenal," said Mark Dreyer, the founder of China Sports Insider in Beijing."But again, it depends on what perspective you're looking at. Are you just looking through that narrow lens? Because if you're looking at China as a whole, the narrative (from outside China) is much more about China using these Games for sportswashing...I don't think it's really going to change people's perspective on China as a country."