 (CNN)It's probably not the news that US golf fans wanted to hear just over a week before the start of the Ryder Cup. 2020 US Open champion Bryson DeChambeau says he has "wrecked" his hands preparing for a long drive contest.The world No. 7 will feature in the Professional Long Drivers Association World Championship in Mesquite, Nevada, from September 27 to October 1, becoming the first PGA Tour professional to do so. DeChambeau looks on from the 17th tee during the final round of the BMW Championship.However, before then, he will be making his second appearance for Team USA at the Ryder Cup at Whistling Straits, Wisconsin, from September 24-26. But in spending hours on the driving range, the 27-year-old admits that he has damaged his hands. Read More"People don't realize how difficult long drive really is. In golf, it's the one thing where you can judge your accomplishments by a number," he told Golf.com."Not necessarily by going out and playing golf because you can catch a sprinkler head or catch a bad break or bad wind. On Flightscope, you can see the ball speed number. And when you obtain a ball speed number, it's so different and unique."It's like a shot-putter shot-putting a new record number. You're trying to find that full potential to break through."Over the enforced break golf went through in 2020 because of the coronavirus pandemic, DeChambeau added approximately 40 pounds of muscle which has transformed him into one of the biggest drivers on the PGA Tour. So far this season, as a result of the extra muscle and his focus on improving his club speed, DeChambeau is averaging 323.7 yards off the tee, almost four yards more than Rory McIlroy in second. Although his distance training has clearly impacted his body, juggling it and his preparation for the Ryder Cup isn't an unusual experience. Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, features, and videosDeChambeau hits from a drop on the 15th hole during the first round of the Tour Championship."I do it every week," he says. "Is it daunting? Hell yeah. "At first, when I was trying to do it last year, it was very scary. But now that I've been through it and experienced the worst pains from it and the most relaxed state of it where I'm not doing any speed training, I know how to kind of balance it -- for the most part. Why not go hard at life and do both?"