 (CNN)Despite being at the center of controversy over an embedded ball, Patrick Reed was able to fight through the noise and claim his ninth PGA Tour victory. The American shot a four-under par 68 on Sunday at Torrey Pines to romp to a five-shot win at the Farmers Insurance Open, moving the 30-year-old Reed into the top 10 of the world's best golfers. However, it was what happened on the 10th hole on Saturday that had people talking over the weekend. READ: What a difference a year makes, with 2020 'the best of my career so far' for Tyrrell HattonReed celebrates with the trophy after winning the Farmers Insurance Open.After his approach shot traveled left of the green into deep rough, Reed asked a volunteer if the ball had bounced. The volunteer said no, leading Reed to believe his ball may have embedded in the ground.Read MoreAccording to the PGA Tour's  Rules of Golf: "Players can check if their ball is embedded and receive free relief if it is."Free relief allows a golfer to drop the ball and take their next shot.Before checking his ball, Reed could be heard telling his playing partners: "Hey guys, I'm going to check it. They said it didn't bounce."By the time the official had arrived, the 2018 Masters champion had already moved the ball after determining it had been embedded.Reed then asked the official to check the ground for an indentation, saying: "Since I picked it up to check -- it seems like it broke ground -- but I want you to double check."Reed and his caddie Kessler Karain line up a putt during the final round of the Farmers Insurance Open.The rules official said he did feel an indentation in the ground and determined that Reed's ball had been embedded. He then guided Reed through the drop for relief.However, Reed's actions drew criticism from some golfers. Fellow American Xander Schauffele said he would have waited for an official. "If my ball's embedded, I usually will wait and call someone and kind of wait until everyone's on the same page, wait to look at video," Schauffele said. "So I try to avoid situations like that just for that reason. You can put a tee in the ground and check your ball."He did everything by the book according to the official and everyone stood by there. The talk amongst the boys isn't great, I guess, but he's protected by the Tour and that's all that matters, I guess."Reed hits from the bunker on the 1st hole during the final round of the Farmers Insurance Open.Meanwhile American golfer Lanto Griffin said players were "pissed off.""Golf's a game of sportsmanship and it's tough to put us in the spot to call him out because we weren't there, but at the end of the day I think 99 percent of the golfers out here, if it's in question one way or the other, they're going to go the other way, not taking a drop, it didn't cross, that type of deal," said the 32-year-old Griffin."So, it's tough to see, it's sad, kind of pisses us off, but it's the way it is. Hopefully something changes and come to a conclusion."On the same day, a similar incident happened with four-time major winner Rory McIlroy. His second shot on the 18th hole landed in rough on the right side of the fairway and although video footage showed it hopped, players and witnesses around the area were unaware of that.According to the PGA Tour: "As such McIlroy proceeded along proper guidelines, informed his playing partners, and took legal relief."Reed watches his tee shot on the 7th hole during the final round of the Farmers Insurance Open.Afterwards the PGA Tour confirmed that, after reviewing both incidents, Reed and McIlroy's drops were within the boundaries of the laws. "John Mutch, Ken Tackett and Gary Young have reviewed the Rory McIlroy videos from No. 18 yesterday and determined that it was virtually the same situation that Patrick Reed faced on No. 10 during the third round," the PGA Tour said in a statement."It was reasonable for both players to conclude -- based on the fact that they did not see the ball land, but given the lie of the ball in soft course conditions -- that they proceed as the Rule allows for an potential embedded ball."They marked, lifted and assessed the situation to determine if the ball was embedded. Patrick went one step further and called in a Rules Official to be sure his assessment would not be questioned (although this step is not required). Both players took proper relief under the Rule 16/3."The Committee is comfortable with how both players proceeded given the fact that they used the evidence they had at the time."Reed took to Twitter after his victory to defend his actions, pointing out that he had done no differently than McIlroy."DID THE SAME THING TODAY ON HOLE 18! AND DIDN'T EVEN CALL A RULES OFFICIAL OVER TO DEEM THE BALL EMBEDDED. END OF STORY," tweeted Reed.Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, features, and videoshttps://t.co/qza5Aa1yrS.   RORY MCILROY @McIlroyRory DID THE SAME THING TODAY ON HOLE 18! AND DIDN'T EVEN CALL A RULES OFFICIAL OVER TO DEEM THE BALL EMBEDDED. END OF STORY.— Patrick Reed (@PReedGolf) January 31, 2021

McIlroy also addressed his situation afterwards, saying he "basically did the same thing as Patrick did." "I said, well, I'm going to just check if it's embedded," McIlroy explained to ESPN. "I just saw the video of it, because none of them saw it bounce, so I checked if it was embedded and it was in its pitch mark. I took the ball out and there was a lump of mud on it and it had broken the surface. I said to Rory Sabbatini, look, this ball's embedded, and he said yeah, no problem at all.''In December 2019, Former Masters champion Reed was penalized two strokes for appearing to deliberately improve his lie in a bunker during the third round of the Hero World Challenge in the Bahamas.Reed did not break any PGA rules -- he wasn't required to ask for a Rules Official's opinion before taking "proper relief" -- but what happened over the weekend showed just how keenly players and fans of the sport view the sanctity of golf's traditions.