Mark Wolfe is an energy economist and serves as the executive director of the National Energy Assistance Directors' Association (NEADA), representing the state directors of the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program. He specializes in energy and housing affordability and related finance issues. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. 




President Biden has been in office for more than a year, and Congress still cannot agree on a full-year funding plan. Lawmakers have instead approved a series of short-term funding bills to keep the government operating, the most recent of which was passed late last week. It will keep the government running through March 11, 2022.   Short-term spending bills are passed when Congress cannot agree on a full-year plan. While they can include additional expenditures to address immediate congressional concerns, they typically keep spending at the previous year's level and do not include additional funding for programs to address changing needs. In other words, there are usually no funding adjustments to help children, for instance, who have suffered during the pandemic and have increased needs for mental health services. The same goes for school districts that are educating disadvantaged children who have fallen behind on their education, and for families who are struggling to pay their home energy bills. The House and Senate full-year spending bills, meanwhile, would significantly increase funding for a broad range of essential services that meet the needs of struggling families, workers, people with disabilities, the elderly, immigrants and students attending college. For example, both the House and Senate spending bills would provide a $400 increase in the maximum Pell Grant, an essential program that helps low- and moderate-income students pay for college. They would also provide substantial increases in funding for school districts serving impoverished families.  These proposed increases in funding are long overdue. A recent study by the Coalition on Human Needs found that of 192 federal programs that help low-income families, 126 of them had less funding in 2021 than they received in 2010. The numbers are grim: Job training funding for adults has been cut by 18%, children's mental health cut by 15.7% and maternal and child health cut by 11.9%. The House and Senate funding bills would also reverse years of spending cuts to key federal agencies that provide essential services to the country as a whole. Since 2010, federal funding for the IRS has been reduced by 20%, Environmental Protection Agency by 27% and Social Security Administration by 13%. As a result, the operations of these agencies have been reduced and service delivery has suffered. For example, IRS audits have dropped by 58% and agency staff were only able to answer about one-third of taxpayer calls in 2019. This is not a way to run the country. Read MoreIt's time to ban Congress members from trading stocksThe biggest stumbling block to enacting a full-year spending bill is that the Senate Republicans are insisting on a higher level of spending for defense programs and a lower level of spending for domestic programs, compared to what the House has proposed. If the price for Republican support to pass the funding bills is an increase in defense, it should not come at the expense of programs that strengthen low-income families.  Congress already failed to pass the extension of the enhanced child tax credit, which significantly strengthened low-income families by providing them with  higher payments that were paid on a monthly basis to help cover everyday expenses. Lawmakers must not fail these families a second time. Disadvantaged and vulnerable families have struggled through the pandemic to send their children to school, heat their homes and access essential services. Congress should pass a full-year spending bill to strengthen the programs that provide essential support. It's the right and fair thing to do.