Story highlightsNo one is ever a racist, judging by a parade of apologies from celebs, politiciansBut what if someone called out for such behavior said, "What I did was racist"Part of the problem, some observers say, is that the word "racist" hasn't evolved (CNN)A group of women were chatting and laughing together like old friends when the subject turned to race.One of them said she was amazed that Donald Trump, while running for president, could get away with describing Mexican immigrants as "rapists" and "killers." "If you kick every Latino out of this country," another chimed in, "then who is going to be cleaning your toilet, Donald Trump?"Someone gasped and there was an awkward pause. One of the group was of Puerto Rican descent and two others were African-American. They were all panelists on the ABC show, "The View," and their conversation before a studio audience was being broadcast live. The woman whose comment derailed the perky talk-show banter was reality TV star Kelly Osbourne, who is white. She later took to Twitter to "take responsibility for my poor choice of words," but added, "I will not apologize for being a racist as I am NOT."Read MoreNo one is ever a racist, judging by the parade of apologies from celebrities, politicians and even police officers caught acting in apparently racially offensive ways. But here's a thought: What if a white person called out for such behavior instead said, "What I did was racist, and there's no other excuse. I was wrong."Is the American public ready for that? Has any public figure ever successfully made such an admission?"I'd be relieved if anyone would admit that, but I'm not holding my breath," says Brit Bennett, an African-American journalist and author who writes about race. "People get more upset at being called a racist than the injustice of racism." A year after racial protests erupted in Ferguson, Missouri, Americans are talking about racism in more sophisticated ways. More people now use terms like "racial bias" and "systemic racism." Yet the way many people use the word "racist" has not evolved. It is still stuck in a bygone era when the only racists were people burning crosses, say some civil rights activists, commentators and historians.American history doesn't offer many examples of public figures admitting to racism, but George Wallace came close in 1982 when he admitted he was "wrong" about race."When you use the word 'racist' today, it's always all or nothing -- either you is or you ain't," says Jerald Podair, an American studies professor at Lawrence University in Wisconsin. "It's like that line about being a little pregnant: You are or you are not."Perhaps it's time to rewrite script, some say. If you get accused of being a racist, skip the instant denials and do a little "self-interrogation," says Mark Naison, a civil rights activist and author of "White Boy: A Memoir." If it's true, publicly own your racism. Naison is a white man who says he's done that -- and the process has been liberating. He has stricken the phrase, "I am not a racist," from his vocabulary."If you say, 'I'm not a racist,' that's the best way of saying to me I can't trust you,'' says Naison, a history professor at Fordham University in New York City. "Because everybody internalizes all these racial stereotypes that are a part of our culture and our history, and that includes people of color."The evolution of the R-wordPart of the challenge of admitting that one is a racist is a lack of role models. Few, if any, public figures have made such an admission in contemporary American culture, some observers say. A politician can confess to an extramarital affair; a CEO can admit to a disastrous product launch; and individuals can stand up in 12-step meetings and admit they're addicts or alcoholics. But there's no "Racists Anonymous" or "racism rehab," they say. For most people, being called a racist is like being called a communist during the height of the Cold War, says Podair, the American studies professor."When the word was used, it stuck to you," Podair says. "You couldn't get it off of your shoe."The R-word is such a weaponized term that it's easy to forget it acquired its power only relatively recently. Racist rhetoric was the norm in America until the civil rights movement made it taboo in the 1960s, Podair says.Now the word "racist" can be deployed as the rhetorical version of the nuclear option. It can end friendships, careers and earning potential. Photos: Apologies: When celebs offendKelly Osbourne tried to call out Donald Trump on ABC's "The View" over his comments about Latino immigrants, saying: "If you kick every Latino out of this country, then who is going to be cleaning your toilet, Donald Trump?" But her comment was not well received by the show's other co-hosts. She later went on Twitter to "take responsibility for my poor choice of words" but added, "I will not apologize for being a racist as I am NOT." Click through this gallery to see other celebrities and public figures who have apologized after being caught out for offensive behavior.Hide Caption 1 of 14 Photos: Apologies: When celebs offendA transcript released by the National Enquirer detailed racist remarks wrestler Hulk Hogan made about the dating life of his daughter, Brooke. Hogan issued an apology, saying, "It was unacceptable for me to have used that offensive language; there is no excuse for it; and I apologize for having done it."Hide Caption 2 of 14 Photos: Apologies: When celebs offendWhen Paula Deen was being sued for racial discrimination in 2013, she admitted to using the N-word -- and the celebrity chef's career derailed. Deen tried to make amends with two different videotaped apologies, but the execution just made matters worse.Hide Caption 3 of 14 Photos: Apologies: When celebs offendOscar-nominated star Benedict Cumberbatch has apologized for referring to black actors as "colored" during his interview with PBS' Tavis Smiley about the lack of diversity in the British film industry. Cumberbatch said he was an "idiot" and "devastated" at his choice of words. Hide Caption 4 of 14 Photos: Apologies: When celebs offendJulianne Hough is such a fan of "Orange Is the New Black" that she thought it would be fun to dress up as one of her favorite characters, "Crazy Eyes," for Halloween in 2013. Yet Hough went too far when she combined a prison orange jumpsuit with blackface, prompting outrage and a swift apology from the dancer-actress. Hide Caption 5 of 14 Photos: Apologies: When celebs offendJustin Bieber took responsibility for using racial slurs as a teen. In two videos that surfaced in June 2014, a younger Bieber can be seen using the N-word on two separate occasions -- instances that he says were the result of his own ignorance. Hide Caption 6 of 14 Photos: Apologies: When celebs offendMel Gibson was being interviewed about his film "Edge of Darkness" in 2010 when a reporter asked him asked about various scandals, including an anti-Semitic rant in 2006.  "That's almost four years ago, dude," Gibson said. "I've moved on. I guess you haven't." The actor could be heard calling the reporter an a**hole at the end. After the 2006 incident, Gibson issued an apology and appealed to the Jewish community to help him recover from his alcohol addiction.Hide Caption 7 of 14 Photos: Apologies: When celebs offendIn a 2014 Playboy interview, Gary Oldman waded into controversies involving remarks by fellow actors Mel Gibson and Alec Baldwin. Oldman's comments were slammed by Jewish groups, prompting a letter from Oldman apologizing and saying he was "deeply remorseful." Hide Caption 8 of 14 Photos: Apologies: When celebs offend"Seinfeld" star Michael Richards went from beloved comic actor to persona non grata after he erupted during a standup performance in November 2006, screaming racial slurs at an African-American man in the audience. After video of his tirade went viral, Richards appeared on CBS' "Late Show with David Letterman" to say that he was "deeply, deeply sorry."Hide Caption 9 of 14 Photos: Apologies: When celebs offendLeaked audio recordings of former Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling making racially charged remarks led to him being forced to sell the NBA team. Sterling told CNN's Anderson Cooper that he had been "baited" into making what he called "terrible" remarks. Sterling repeatedly apologized and denied accusations that he's racist.Hide Caption 10 of 14 Photos: Apologies: When celebs offendJohn Mayer's controversial 2010 interview with Playboy magazine brought so much heat for the singer-songwriter that he ended up crying during his apology. Mayer, who used the N-word in the interview and claimed that he has a "white supremacist" penis, first gave a Twitter apology and then a tearful, public one during a concert in Nashville. Hide Caption 11 of 14 Photos: Apologies: When celebs offendPhiladelphia Eagles wide receiver Riley Cooper apologized after being caught on video uttering a racial slur at a concert. "My actions were inexcusable. The more I think about what I did, the more disgusted I get. ... I'm going to be speaking with a variety of professionals to help me better understand how I could have done something that was so offensive."Hide Caption 12 of 14 Photos: Apologies: When celebs offendCharlie Sheen apologized in 2012 for a homophobic slur he made. According to the Los Angeles Times, Sheen was emceeing the opening of a bar at a seaside restaurant in Mexico when he used the offensive word. "How we doing?" Sheen says in a video that TMZ posted. "Lying bunch of (slur)...how we doing?" Sheen very quickly issued an apology. "I meant no ill will and intended to hurt no one and I apologize if I offended anyone," he said in the statement.Hide Caption 13 of 14 Photos: Apologies: When celebs offendDuane "Dog the Bounty Hunter" Chapman's reality show was briefly suspended in 2007 after his son recorded a profanity-laced conversation in which Chapman repeatedly used the N-word. Chapman issued an apology, saying, "I am deeply disappointed in myself for speaking out of anger to my son and using such a hateful term. ... I should have never used that term."Hide Caption 14 of 14WWE recently fired former wrestler Hulk Hogan after he was caught on tape using the N-word and complaining about the prospect of his daughter being intimate with a black man. The Food Network fired celebrity chef Paula Deen in 2013 after court documents revealed she used the N-word and made anti-Semitic jokes. Both Hogan and Deen apologized. During a tearful interview on NBC's "Today" show, Deen said she was not a racist. And Hogan apologized, saying the racial epithets he used were "inconsistent with my own beliefs" and "is not who I am."At times, such claims of racial innocence anger people as much as the offensive words themselves, some African-Americans say. "The constant denials are insulting," says Saptosa Foster, a black woman who is managing partner at the 135th Street Agency, a public relations firm that represents Hollywood clients."I'm disappointed when I hear someone say that [they're not racist] when they are caught on tape or a recording blatantly spewing racist beliefs," Foster says. "Either they don't realize they're racist and don't understand what racism means, or they're unwilling to confront the issue head-on."The white 'anti-racist' pioneersSo what would happen if a white person decided to admit he's been a racist? Would there be a way to do it and not court widespread contempt? How would racial minorities react to such honesty?American history doesn't offer many answers to those questions. Former Alabama Gov. George Wallace came close to such an admission in 1982 when he said he had been "wrong" about race. In the 1960s, Wallace had been a sneering opponent of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and an enemy of the civil rights movement. He was confined to a wheelchair after surviving an assassination attempt in 1972. Later in life, while running for a fourth term as governor, he publicly apologized for his segregationist views and asked civil rights leaders for forgiveness. Yet some people wondered  whether his actions were sincere, or if he just needed the support of black voters for political survival.Before he died, former Republican chairman Lee Atwater apologized for  comments about Democratic presidential candidate Michael Dukakis. Republican strategist Lee Atwater had a similar moment while dying of a brain tumor. In 1988, Atwater had helped create the infamous Willie Horton television ad that some say played on racial fears while helping elect George H.W. Bush as president. Horton was a black Massachusetts prisoner who, while on prison furlough, raped a white woman and stabbed her husband. Atwater deployed a menacing portrait of Horton during Bush's campaign and vowed he would make Horton the "running mate" of Bush's Democratic opponent, then-Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis.In 1991, Atwater apologized to Dukasis for the "naked cruelty" of his statement, saying "it makes me sound racist." But, like with many apologies since, Atwater added: "I am not."Some private individuals, though, have taken a path that public figures declined to take. They are white pioneers, pushing our national conversation on race in new directions. Some call themselves "anti-racists." Jennifer Louden, a self-help author and blogger, recently wrote a painfully honest essay entitled "Yes, I Am a Racist."  In it, she describes unwittingly absorbing racist attitudes from her mother. Even today she says she sometimes feels discomfort around people of color because she says she is "routinely, consistently, profoundly biased.""Yes, we all have unconscious biases, but white people's biases support a racist system," she writes. Naison, the civil rights activist, says he took a similar step years ago when he confessed his racism to his then-girlfriend.He says he was in a relationship with the woman, who was black, in the mid-1960s when he came across an essay she had written for a college course. He was shocked as he read it -- because it was so well-written.Here was a white man who thought he was beyond racism because of his relationship and his civil rights activism. But his shock turned to shame when he realized why he was so surprised -- he had somehow assumed his girlfriend was intellectually inferior."I thought, 'Holy s**t, this s**t is in me, too,'" Naison says. "I not only have to struggle with this on the outside world but struggle with what's inside of me."He says he confessed his racism to his girlfriend and they went on to have a six-year relationship. Today, he makes that practice of ruthless self-interrogation a habit. He asks his black friends and colleagues to confront him if they hear or see him acting in a racist way.And sometimes they do, which he says actually builds trust.  "People trust me to be honest," he says. "They don't always trust me to be right. They trust me to be open to criticism. When it's time for struggle, they can count on me. Even if I say stupid s**t, they know I'll be in the trenches with them."He says he hasn't been shunned by a single black person when he's been open about his internalized racial biases."People are shocked that a white person is honest and trusts them enough to put that s**t on the table," he says. "I've never had a black person pull away from that."The dangers of 'racist rehab'Foster, the black publicist, says she wouldn't shun a public figure who admitted being a racist after getting caught in the act. "It would be so remarkable and probably be an example for not just other public figures," she says, "but for the general population to start to look at racism as almost a sickness and as a series of beliefs that can be unlearned." She says black people have a deep capacity to forgive. She cited the reaction of black churchgoers who publicly forgave the white racist who recently killed nine worshippers, including the pastor, at a black church in Charleston, South Carolina."Black people would understand," she says.  Putting on a public relations hat, Foster says most human beings would understand, because people like it when others are upfront about their mistakes.Individuals purging their souls and admitting their racism -- worth very little. Corporations and our government admitting their racism -- priceless.-- Doreen E. Loury, director of Pan African Studies at Arcadia College in Pennsylvania"When people come out and say I'm a sex or drug addict and lay it out there, people tend to gravitate toward them for owning up," she says.  "It can start a turnaround."Bennett, the black journalist, once wrote in an essay entitled, "I Don't Know What to Do with Good White People," in which she quoted her mother saying something that some black people only admit privately: It's easier for them to deal with an avowed racist than someone who denies it."'It was a lot simpler in the rural South,' my mother tells me. 'White people let you know right away where you stood,'" Bennett wrote. A little more racial honesty could heal, not just hurt, she says."If we could think of interpersonal racism as something that people do -- rather than something that they are -- it would actually be a lot easier to correct," she says. "You could challenge someone's racist speech, for example, without condemning them as a person but in hopes of encouraging them to think more carefully about their language and its implications."Perhaps people could treat someone who admits to being a racist like someone who admits to having a drinking problem, says Podair, the American studies professor. "In Alcoholics Anonymous, you're supposed to stand up and say, 'I'm an alcoholic' -- it's a catharsis,'' Podair says. "People don't turn their back on you. They say we're here to accept you. Let's work through this. It's nonjudgmental and nonconfrontational."Others, though, warn that taking a therapeutic approach to racism threatens to reduce racism to what one person feels about another.In its most destructive form, racism is a system of advantage based on race where institutions -- prisons, banks, corporations - wreak more havoc than bigoted individuals, says Doreen E. Loury, director of Pan African Studies at Arcadia College in Pennsylvania."Individuals purging their souls and admitting their racism -- worth very little," Loury says. "Corporations and our government admitting their racism -- priceless."Loury says treating racism like an addiction could lead to a situation where people rationalize their racism instead of trying to change it, she says.The self-confessed racist would be like the crying sinner who never changes, she says."The so-called sinner who drinks all week, beats and cheats on his wife and gambles all his money away and says, 'Lord forgive me' on Sunday lasts until Wednesday and then starts with the same behavior all over again, knowing he can ask the Lord for forgiveness on Sunday because he's only human and born into sin," she says. Looking for a step forward on the issuePodair, the historian, concedes that giving people permission to publicly admit to their racism is risky. South Africa created a Truth and Reconciliation Commission in 1995 to help reconcile victims and perpetrators of apartheid, but nothing like that exists in the United States. "It has a genie-in-a-bottle quality about it where we don't even know where it goes," Podair says. "If you give whites free rein to say, 'I am a racist,' God knows where that could lead."He says racial minorities will ultimately be the "gatekeepers" who decide if and when public and private figures can admit they're a racist. Whites will take their cues from them."It would be a step forward to create an atmosphere where a Hulk Hogan could say, 'Yes, I have racist thoughts, racist ideas, but that's not all of me and not everything I think about race,' " Podair says."We need to find that language, something that allows you to do that," he says.We don't seem to have it now. That was obvious in the panicked expressions that spread across the faces of the panelists on "The View" after Kelly Osbourne tried to explain her Trump statement. One of the co-hosts quickly changed the subject to fashion, and then the show went to a commercial. One day, however, someone may rewrite that script. She's not going to say, "I don't see color," hire an army of publicists or tell everyone she has biracial grandchildren. She's going to say, "Whoa, I'm a racist.""One brave person, if they were to step forward, that would be a banner step," says Foster, the publicist. "I'm not saying it's going to solve our problem, but it would be such a huge step forward in addressing race relations in this country." At the least, it'll make for great television. And who knows -- it might make for a better conversation on race.JUST WATCHEDThis joke about Aboriginal women has Trevor Noah under fireReplayMore Videos ...MUST WATCH (9 Videos)This joke about Aboriginal women has Trevor Noah under fireRoseanne Barr apologizes after racist tweetsYouTube star cut from film over racist remarksHulk Hogan heard saying the N-word on tapeKelly Osbourne's Trump slam backfiresDeen apologizes for 'hurtful' languageSterling: I'm so sorry; I'm so apologeticJustin Bieber apologizes for N-word joke2010: Mel Gibson's alleged racist rant