 (CNN)He may be 43 and about to play in his 10th Super Bowl, but Tom Brady isn't ready to seriously consider retiring just yet. The legendary quarterback said Monday -- which marked a stripped-back Super Bowl Opening Night held virtually amid the pandemic -- that he may even have a few more seasons in him and would "definitely consider" playing past 45. "It's a physical sport and just the perspective I have on that is that you never know when that moment is," said Brady, whose Tampa Bay Buccaneers face the Kansas City Chiefs in Super Bowl LV this Sunday.  "It's a contact sport and there's a lot of training that goes into it. And again, it has to be 100 percent commitment from myself to keep doing it."This year's a little different than the others... https://t.co/htZ351fFwU pic.twitter.com/QwWQu9bBjT— Tom Brady (@TomBrady) February 1, 2021 Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, videos and featuresRead MoreBrady could win a seventh Super Bowl ring in Tampa this weekend, as well as potentially leading the Bucs to a second championship and first since 2003. He'll be contesting his third Super Bowl in four seasons and, since turning 40, is leading the NFL with 47 wins. A seventh title would see Brady surpass Michael Jordan, the NBA great having won six championships between 1991 and 1998. "Michael's one of my sports idols, I think he's pretty incredible," said Brady. "For me, it's about being part of a lot of great teams. To have the opportunity to play in this game means a lot to me."We're one game away from the ultimate goal in this sport. And I've been a part of that ultimate goal six other times. So they're all different. They've all meant something a little bit different to me. They've all been very unique in their own way. And it'll just be cool to accomplish it this time. "I don't compare them to the other times. Those were all magical moments in my life and no one could ever take those away from me. And hopefully we can finish this season strong and win a Super Bowl. That's why we're here."Brady celebrates the Bucs' 31-26 win over the Green Bay Packers during the NFC Championship game.READ: This NFL coach made diversity a priority. Now his team is headed to the Super BowlREAD: An autographed Tom Brady rookie card got auctioned for $555,988Brady will go up against Patrick Mahomes this weekend -- a quarterback 18 years his junior hoping to lead the Chiefs to back-to-back titles. It's the first ever Super Bowl match-up between the winning quarterback from the previous two Super Bowls, Brady having won with the New England Patriots in 2019. "I really admire Patrick for the kind of player he is. He has great command of his team. I know his teammates love playing with him. He's got great charisma," said Brady. "And I think when I see Patrick, I see someone who, again -- none of these moments are too big for him. "And the times that I've had a chance to talk to him off the field, I've certainly enjoyed it. And he's a great player. I know it's still early in his career, but what he accomplishes ultimately is going to be up to him." 