 (CNN)A Serbian volleyball player has been suspended for two matches after she was caught on camera stretching her eyelids -- a racist gesture used to mock people with Asian heritage -- during an international competition between Serbia and Thailand. Sanja Djurdjevic violated the sport's disciplinary rules on June 1 while competing in the match in Italy, according to a statement given Tuesday from the FIVB Disciplinary Panel Sub-Committee. In addition to the suspension, the independent body, which is responsible for imposing disciplinary sanctions within FIVB competitions, fined Serbia's volleyball federation the equivalent of $22,000. According to the panel, the FIVB will donate the money to a cause dedicated to tackling discriminatory behavior and/or to fund educational programs on cultural sensitivity.Greater accountabilityPosting on her since deactivated account, Djurdjevic apologized for her actions. "I am aware of my mistake and I immediately after the match apologized to the whole Thailand team."Read More"I only wanted to address my teammates with the message: 'Now, we will start playing defense like them,' I didn't mean to disrespect anyone," she added. The Volleyball Federation of Serbia also posted a conciliatory message on Facebook saying they "apologize sincerely" to the Thailand team, but asked people, "don't blow this out of proportion! Sanja is aware of her mistake and she immediately apologized to the whole Thailand team." "She didn't mean any disrespect. Of course, it was unfortunate. It all ended up as a simple misunderstanding, in a friendly atmosphere between the players of the two teams," continued the team statement.Attached to the written apology was a video shared by one of the Thai players, and an image of teammates from both sides standing together. As screenshots of the incident were widely shared on social media, thousands signed a petition calling for greater accountability. "An apology is the bare minimum as a human being. But Djurdjevic and the National Volleyball Team represent their country in an official sport with official FIVB rules and those rules need to be upheld to maintain credibility and set the standard for the world," the petition said.A global reckoningDjurdjevic's actions come as the world reckons with a global spike in anti-Asian racism. From the UK to Australia, reports of anti-East and anti-Southeast Asian hate crimes have increased in Western countries as the pandemic took hold over the last year. Athletes continue to speak out about violence towards Asian people, highlighting the role that social media plays in illuminating these incidents. Earlier this year, former NBA star Jeremy Lin encouraged spectators to "watch these videos to see this is actually happening."The FIVB confirmed that Djurdjevic's sanction is "final," adding that they are "committed to fostering understanding, solidarity and unity against all forms of discriminatory behavior.""The FIVB will continue to work tirelessly with all of its National Federations to ensure that these values are reflected across the whole community," they added. 