 (CNN)Hideki Matsuyama put together two brilliant closing rounds at the Augusta National to win the 2021 Masters. The Japanese golfer finished ahead of Will Zalatoris in second to claim his first major. He shot a final round 73 to finish with a score of 10 under par, one shot ahead of the American runner-up.The 29-year-old was bunched amongst his competitors before an hour-long weather delay on Saturday before he catapulted himself into the lead in the third round with some scintillating golf.In the all important fourth round on Sunday, Matsuyama held off early tests from Zalatoris and a late push from Xander Schauffele, in which both players found the water, before guiding himself to victory.READ: Moe Norman: The 'Rain Man of golf' who amazed even the greats of the sportRead MoreIn winning the famous golf tournament, Matsuyama became the first Japanese man to win a golf major and ended an almost four-year winless drought. As is tradition, last year's winner Dustin Johnson -- who failed to make the cut this year after suffering his own struggles -- presented Matsuyama with his Green Jacket which etched him into Masters and golfing folklore.  Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentHideki Matsuyama celebrates with the green jacket after winning the Masters golf tournament on Sunday, April 11. He finished one shot ahead of Will Zalatoris.Hide Caption 1 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentMatsuyama celebrates with his caddie, Shota Hayafuji, on the 18th green Sunday.Hide Caption 2 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentMatsuyama lines up a putt on the 18th green Sunday.Hide Caption 3 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentXander Schauffele bites his club on the 16th hole Sunday. He hit the ball in the water there, effectively ending his hopes of winning the tournament.Hide Caption 4 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentKevin Na plays a shot from a bunker on Sunday.Hide Caption 5 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentMatsuyama plays a shot from a bunker.Hide Caption 6 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentSchauffele hits a tee shot on Sunday.Hide Caption 7 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentAn attendant adjusts scores from behind a leaderboard on Saturday.Hide Caption 8 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentMatsuyama finished with a 7-under 65 on Saturday to take a four-shot lead into Sunday's final round.Hide Caption 9 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentSpectators walk to cover on Saturday after play was temporarily suspended because of inclement weather.Hide Caption 10 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentMatt Jones reacts on the 13th hole as a warning horn was sounded to suspend play on Saturday.Hide Caption 11 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentJustin Thomas hits a tee shot on Saturday.Hide Caption 12 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentJustin Rose eyes a par putt on the first hole Friday. Rose held a one-shot lead heading into the weekend.Hide Caption 13 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentPeople spread out from one another as they watch Tommy Fleetwood putt on the 16th green on Friday.Hide Caption 14 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentBryson DeChambeau, last year's US Open champion, plays a shot on the 13th hole Friday.Hide Caption 15 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentFormer US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, left, watches the action along with fellow Augusta National member Heidi Ueberroth on Friday.Hide Caption 16 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentFormer Masters champion Jordan Spieth walks past the azaleas on the sixth fairway Friday.Hide Caption 17 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentLee Elder acknowledges applause as he joins Gary Player and Jack Nicklaus as honorary starters on Thursday. In 1975, Elder became the first African American to play in the Masters.Hide Caption 18 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentDustin Johnson, last year's Masters champion, plays a shot on the second hole on Thursday.Hide Caption 19 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentRose hits out of a bunker on the second hole on Thursday. He shot a 7-under 65 to take a four-shot lead after the first round.Hide Caption 20 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentThis was the first time in two years that the Masters had allowed spectators on the course.Hide Caption 21 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentSpieth hits a tee shot on Thursday.Hide Caption 22 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentFour-time major winner Brooks Koepka had knee surgery less than a month ago, but he was on the course for the first round.Hide Caption 23 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentRory McIlroy hits out of the rough on the sixth hole Thursday.Hide Caption 24 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentTwo-time Masters champ Bubba Watson hits out of a bunker on the first hole Thursday.Hide Caption 25 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentFans watch some of the first-round play.Hide Caption 26 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentMax Homa walks down the 18th fairway on Thursday.Hide Caption 27 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentJoaquin Niemann looks for his ball on the 10th hole Thursday.Hide Caption 28 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentDuring a practice round on Wednesday, Ian Poulter takes a Hogan Bridge selfie with his playing partners and their caddies.Hide Caption 29 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentMcIlroy and Thomas walk across the Sarazen Bridge during a practice round on Tuesday.Hide Caption 30 of 31 Photos: The 2021 Masters golf tournamentAzaleas frame the 16th green on Monday.Hide Caption 31 of 31Sitting alongside Johnson and his translator in Butler Cabin, where champions receive their Green Jackets, Matsuyama expressed his happiness that he could blaze a trail for other future Japanese golfers. "I'm really happy," he said. "My nerves really didn't start on the second nine. It was right from the start today and right to the very last putt. I was thinking about (my family) all the way round today and I'm really happy I played well for them. Hopefully I'll be a pioneer and many other Japanese people will follow. I'm glad to be able to open the flood gates hopefully and many more will follow me."The path to victoryJustin Rose's brilliant opening round stole the headlines on Thursday -- but Matsuyama was just a few shots behind. Friday was a tough day with the winds swirling and the greens fast, but on Saturday, the Japanese golfer put his pedal to the metal. With Rose stuttering, inclement weather forced play to be stopped for about an hour, after which Matsuyama hit his straps. In the final eight holes, he hit four birdies, an eagle and no bogeys to storm into a four-shot lead with just 18 holes remaining. Schauffele bites his club after taking his second tee shot on the 16th hole during the final round of the Masters.Zalatoris, the youngster who impressed in his debut Masters, briefly reduced the deficit to one shot before Matsuyama found his groove from Saturday, birdying the eighth and ninth to extend his lead. Although his lead was at one point six, some battling golf from American Schauffele reduced the gap to just four. And the lead further reduced after a dramatic 15th hole where Matsuyama's second shot found the water. His bogey and Schauffele's birdie reduced the gap between the top two to just two shots with three holes remaining. But with the pressure riding on his shoulders, Schauffele found the water on the par-three 16th, eventually finishing with a triple-bogey, effectively ending his hopes of a maiden major victory. And in the final two holes, Matsuyama showed poise and composure -- besides a rogue iron shot into a bunker on the 18th that had nerves jangling -- that belied his major experience to hold off the challenge and make history. Matsuyama celebrates with his caddie on the 18th green after winning The Masters.For 24-year-old debutant Zalatoris, it was almost the dream four days, coming within a shot of history. He was attempting to become the first player since Fuzzy Zoeller in 1979 to win in his Masters debut."I have no idea how I'm feeling, I am speechless," he said in his post-round press conference. "To come one shot short is motivating but for it to come at the Masters where I have been coming since I was nine years old is exciting. I will come back next year and hopefully go one better."Matsuyama's previous best was at the US Open in 2017Matsuyama, who was No. 25 in golf's world rankings, wasn't one of the typical names being suggested as a potential Masters winner. After all, he hasn't won on the PGA Tour since August of 2017. His previous best at a major came at the US Open in 2017, when he tied second behind Brooks Koepka. While Matsuyama became the first Japanese man to win a golf major, two of his female counterparts have already recorded that achievement. Hinako Shibuno won the Women's British Open in 2019 while Chako Higuchi won at the 1977 LPGA Championship. Matsuyama's victory on Sunday completes an extremely successful few weeks for Japan and its golf players at Augusta.Eight days ago, Tsubasa Kajitani won the Augusta National Women's Amateur.Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, features, and videosMatsuyama fist bumps 2020 champion Dustin Johnson during the Green Jacket ceremony after Matsuyama won the Masters.Five-time Masters champion Tiger Woods congratulated Matsuyama on his momentous achievement. "Making Japan proud Hideki," he said on Twitter. "Congratulations on such a huge accomplishment for you and your country. This historical Masters win will impact the entire golf world."Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga also congratulated Hideki Matsuyama, calling his win "wonderful.""With the prolonged COVID-19 pandemic, he's given courage and inspiration to all Japanese people," Suga said in a statement Monday local time."He has become the first Japanese person to win the Masters and first to win a major championship. He is the first one in Japan and also in whole Asia. I think it's amazing."CNN's Mai Nishiyama contributed to this report.