 (CNN)Forty-four years old and entering his 22nd NFL season, Tom Brady definitely isn't slowing down. The superstar quarterback threw for 379 yards and four touchdowns, helping his Tampa Bay Buccaneers to a 31-29 win over the Dallas Cowboys as they began their defense of their Super Bowl title on Thursday. After an enthralling back and forth encounter at the Raymond James Stadium, a Ryan Succop field goal with just five seconds remaining wrapped up the victory for the Bucs. Rob Gronkowksi -- Brady's longtime teammate with the New England Patriots -- caught two touchdowns, while Antonio Brown and Chris Godwin caught one apiece.Cowboys wide receiver Amari Cooper had two for the Texas team, and second year player CeeDee Lamb caught one to keep Dallas in the fight. Read MoreA Cowboys field goal gave them a one-point lead with just 1:22 left in the game, but Brady showed his experience to put his team in a position to win the game. And Succop duly reciprocated, drilling his kick from 36-yards out in the final seconds. After the game, Brady praised the collective team effort in a positive start to the new season. "The margin of error is thin in the NFL and, one or two plays, that's the way the game is," Brady told the media afterwards. "Fortunately, we found a way to win. I'm really happy Ryan (Succop) and the field goal team made that really clutch kick at the end, that was great to see. Special teams were just awesome tonight. As a team, we all know that we've got to get back to work and try to improve."Brady passes under pressure from Cowboys defensive end DeMarcus Lawrence.Shining starsIn a game of outstanding quarterback play, Brady and his Cowboys counterpart Dak Prescott lit up the field with their accuracy and timing after a challenging preseason. Prescott, who was making his return to the field for the first time since suffering a compound ankle fracture and dislocation last season, has had to battle a sprained shoulder during the offseason. But the 28-year-old showed no signs of rustiness on Thursday though, arguably outperforming his Bucs opponent, throwing for 403 yards, threw touchdowns and one interception -- Brady had two interceptions. "You can be great and come up short, right? That's what tonight was," Prescott said after the game. Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, features, and videosAmari Cooper catches a touchdown pass against Ross Cockrell of the Bucs."It was a great effort, but we came up short. We want to be the best, and the best is simply being better than the other guys -- day in, day out, being the best in the league."With an array of offensive talent, the Cowboys will be hoping to improve on their disappointing 6-10 record last season. They travel to face the Los Angeles Chargers in week two of the new season while the Bucs will host their division rival, the Atlanta Falcons, on Sunday, September 19. 