A version of this article originally appeared in the weekly weather newsletter, which releases every Monday. You can sign up here to receive these every week and during significant storms.  (CNN)I lived and worked in Miami for four years before coming to Atlanta to join CNN. I've visited the Wall of Wind on the Florida International University (FIU) campus many times.It is a wall of enormous fans inside a big warehouse-type building that can blow air up to 160 mph, which would be a Category 5 hurricane, to test infrastructure and research the power of wind.The 12-fan Wall of Wind at Florida International University, one of the experimental facilities in National Science Foundation's Natural Hazards Engineering Research Infrastructure, that better enables engineering against tornadoes, hurricanes and other windstorms.However, in our changing climate, sadly, 160 mph isn't strong enough. So, the National Science Foundation (NSF) just awarded a $12.8 million grant to FIU's Extreme Events Institute for the design of a full-scale testing facility capable of producing winds of 200 mph, along with a water basin to simulate storm surge and wave action in extreme winds.  FIU will be able to build a house under the current building codes, start up the fans and see if it can withstand 200 mph winds. Will the roof detach? Will the house still be standing at all?   The water basin will look like an enormous pool. It will also be able to simulate different coastlines. Storm surge tends to be worse when the coastlines are more shallow like along the Florida Panhandle. The facility will be able to simulate all of it.  Read More"If you think about trying to future-proof, a changing hazard environment, a hazard scape, the US hazard scape with climate change, the past is not much of a guide. In fact, it can be deceiving," said Dr. Richard Olson, director of the Extreme Events Institute at FIU. "So, if we're going to future-proof, we need to be able to research and test what future hazard events will look like. You can't future-proof in a changing environment if you're looking backwards." Tropical cyclones are getting strongerIt's true. Climate change is showing us storms are getting stronger, moving slower and are holding more water than ever before. They are also rapidly intensifying, meaning the winds are increasing at least 35 mph in a 24-hour period. In 2021, five hurricanes in the Atlantic rapidly intensified. And in 2020, TEN Atlantic hurricanes rapidly intensified. Dorian was one of those storms.  "Dorian in 2019 is the one that totally got my attention," said Olson. "It hit 185 mph over the Bahamas, and until the last day and a half, it was heading straight up Eighth Street in Miami."  Dorian ended up causing mass destruction across Abaco and Grand Bahama.   Photos: Hurricane DorianA body is carried out of the Mudd neighborhood in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on Monday, September 9.Hide Caption 1 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianHomes are in ruins one week after Dorian hit Marsh Harbour.Hide Caption 2 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA photo album is seen amid the debris in Marsh Harbour on Sunday, September 8.Hide Caption 3 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA damaged home in Hope Town, Bahamas.Hide Caption 4 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA toppled building crane is draped over a new construction project in Halifax, Nova Scotia, on September 9.Hide Caption 5 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianBodies are loaded onto a plane in Marsh Harbour on Saturday, September 7.Hide Caption 6 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianThis aerial photo, taken on September 7, shows damage at the South Riding Point oil-storage facility in the Bahamas.Hide Caption 7 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianBoxes of food are loaded onto trucks in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 7.Hide Caption 8 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianPeople reach out for beverages as they await evacuation in Marsh Harbour.Hide Caption 9 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianEvacuees from the Bahamas rest on a Royal Caribbean cruise ship after it arrived in Freeport on September 7. The ship delivered thousands of meals and cases of bottled water.Hide Caption 10 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianPeople wait to leave Marsh Harbour on September 7.Hide Caption 11 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianWaves crash into boats in Halifax, Nova Scotia, as Hurricane Dorian approached on September 7.Hide Caption 12 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA man looks a tree that fell in Moncton, New Brunswick, on September 7. Hide Caption 13 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA man surveys damage at the Boardwalk RV Park in Emerald Isle, North Carolina, on Friday, September 6.Hide Caption 14 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianBryan Philips walks with his dog on a flooded road in Salvo, North Carolina, on September 6.Hide Caption 15 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianEvacuees wait to leave Marsh Harbour in the Bahamas.Hide Caption 16 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA fallen tree lies on top of a vehicle in Isle of Palms, South Carolina, on September 6.Hide Caption 17 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianSchemelda Saintilien walks past debris and damaged houses on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island.Hide Caption 18 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianPolice Officer Curtis Resor, left, and Sgt. Michael Stephens check a sailboat for occupants in Beaufort, North Carolina, on September 6.Hide Caption 19 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianHomes flattened by Hurricane Dorian are seen on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on Thursday, September 5.Hide Caption 20 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianRescue workers recover a body in Marsh Harbour on September 5.Hide Caption 21 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianTwo men stand amid the destruction in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 5.Hide Caption 22 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA woman from the Bahamas speaks on a cell phone after evacuating on September 5. Hide Caption 23 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA woman battles rain and wind in Charleston, South Carolina, on September 5. Hide Caption 24 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianUtility crews work on restoring power in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, on September 5. Hide Caption 25 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianRescue workers walk through floodwaters in Little River, South Carolina, on September 5. Hide Caption 26 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianWorkers try to restore power after a tornado hit Emerald Isle, North Carolina, on September 5. Several tornadoes were reported in the Carolinas.  Hide Caption 27 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianEmerald Isle employees work to clear a road after a tornado hit.Hide Caption 28 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianAn aerial view of Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 5.Hide Caption 29 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianAn evacuee rides in a Coast Guard helicopter after being rescued from Treasure Cay, Bahamas, on Wednesday, September 4.Hide Caption 30 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianBoats are piled up on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on September 4.Hide Caption 31 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianRoshane Eyma cries as she is greeted by members of her church on September 4. She had been rescued and flown to Nassau, Bahamas.Hide Caption 32 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianMarsh Harbour is seen from above on September 4.Hide Caption 33 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianHouses destroyed by Hurricane Dorian are seen on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on September 4.Hide Caption 34 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA resident recovers dishes from his son's home in Pine Bay, Bahamas, on September 4.Hide Caption 35 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianAn aerial view of damage on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island.Hide Caption 36 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA child walks past clothes laid out to dry in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 4.Hide Caption 37 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA broken plane rests on the side of a road in Freeport.Hide Caption 38 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianDebris litters the Grand Bahama International Airport on September 4.Hide Caption 39 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianVolunteers receive relief supplies at the New Providence Community Center in Nassau.Hide Caption 40 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianBoats, docks and houses are destroyed on the island of Great Abaco.Hide Caption 41 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianBraden Vick, right, and Scott Ray run along The Battery in Charleston, South Carolina, on September 4.Hide Caption 42 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianBob Quarles boards up his beach house in Oak Island, North Carolina, on September 4.Hide Caption 43 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA house is surrounded by floodwaters on Grand Bahama island.Hide Caption 44 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianDebbie Pagan checks her raised furniture one last time before she and her husband evacuated their home in Tybee Island, Georgia, on September 4.Hide Caption 45 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianMailboxes are taped shut in Charleston on September 4.Hide Caption 46 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianThis aerial image shows damage on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on Tuesday, September 3.Hide Caption 47 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA family is escorted to a safe zone after being rescued in Freeport, Bahamas, on  September 3. Hide Caption 48 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianJulia Aylen carries her dog as she wades through waist-deep water near her home in Freeport on September 3.Hide Caption 49 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianDamaged homes are seen in this aerial photograph from the Bahamas on September 3.Hide Caption 50 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianVolunteers walk down a flooded road as they work to rescue families near the Casuarina Bridge in Freeport on September 3. Hide Caption 51 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA car is submerged in Freeport floodwaters on September 3. Hide Caption 52 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianResidents wade through a flooded street in Freeport on September 3.Hide Caption 53 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianEddie Wright and his dog, Vino, wait on a bus to evacuate Brunswick, Georgia.Hide Caption 54 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA house is flooded in Freeport on September 3.Hide Caption 55 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianPeople gather donations at the Christ Episcopal Church in Miami.Hide Caption 56 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianBoats are piled up at a Bahamian port on Monday, September 2.Hide Caption 57 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA man walks through the rubble left by Hurricane Dorian in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 2.Hide Caption 58 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianThis September 2 photo provided by NASA shows the eye of Hurricane Dorian as seen from the International Space Station. Hide Caption 59 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianEvacuation traffic is seen near South Carolina's coast on September 2.Hide Caption 60 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianUS Coast Guard helicopter crews have been helping with search-and-rescue efforts in the Bahamas.Hide Caption 61 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA man crosses a street during a downpour in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on September 2.Hide Caption 62 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianThis aerial photo shows Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 2.Hide Caption 63 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianAgency officials brief Bahamian Prime Minister Hubert Minnis and his cabinet members on September 2. Minnis said many homes, businesses and other buildings have been destroyed or heavily damaged. He called the devastation "unprecedented and extensive."Hide Caption 64 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianBusinesses are shuttered near Jetty Park in Fort Pierce, Florida, on September 2.Hide Caption 65 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA boy stands near high surf in Vero Beach, Florida, on September 2.Hide Caption 66 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianThis view of the storm was taken from the International Space Station on September 2.Hide Caption 67 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianDorian left heavy damage at this resort in Hope Town, Bahamas.Hide Caption 68 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianWaves caused by Dorian crash into a man at the Jupiter Beach Park in Florida on September 2.Hide Caption 69 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianStrong winds blow the tops of trees and brush in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 2.Hide Caption 70 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA passenger looks at the flight board at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport on September 2. The airport canceled flights and closed because of winds caused by Dorian.Hide Caption 71 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianPeople watch the waves crash onto Vero Beach, Florida, on September 2.Hide Caption 72 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianClouds loom over a lifeguard tower in Fort Lauderdale on September 2. Hide Caption 73 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianBeachgoers watch a man ride a kiteboard in Indialantic, Florida, on Sunday, September 1.Hide Caption 74 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianPalm trees blow in strong winds prior to Dorian's landfall in Freeport.Hide Caption 75 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA view outside a car's windshield before Dorian hit Freeport on September 1.Hide Caption 76 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianRiverside Mobile Home Park residents Joe Lewis, left, and Rob Chambers work to secure an air conditioner before evacuating the park in Jensen Beach, Florida.Hide Caption 77 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA man places a shutter in a window in Lake Worth, Florida.Hide Caption 78 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianPassengers arrive at Orlando International Airport on Saturday, August 31.Hide Caption 79 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianWorkers install storm shutters in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas.Hide Caption 80 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianNASA employees watch as the Artemis launch tower is rolled back inside a building at the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida.Hide Caption 81 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianMatt Rohrer loads sandbags in the back of his vehicle in Flagler Beach, Florida, on Friday, August 30.Hide Caption 82 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianWorkers at Flamingo Gardens in Davie, Florida, move an Allosaurus statue on August 30.Hide Caption 83 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianShoppers wait in line before sunrise for a Sam's Club store to open in Kissimmee, Florida.Hide Caption 84 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA supervised work crew of female jail prisoners fills sandbags in Titusville, Florida, on Thursday, August 29.Hide Caption 85 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian"Here's a look at #HurricaneDorian from @Space_Station," said astronaut Andrew Morgan, who posted this photo to Twitter. "I caught this shot (August 29) as it traveled across the Caribbean north of Haiti and the Dominican Republic."Hide Caption 86 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianShoppers wait in long lines at a Costco in Davie, Florida, on August 29.Hide Caption 87 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA man fills containers with gasoline in Hialeah, Florida, on August 29.Hide Caption 88 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianA man rides a bike by a Miami Beach building with boarded-up windows on August 29.Hide Caption 89 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianDozens of Orange County residents fill sandbags at Blanchard Park in Orlando on Wednesday, August 28.Hide Caption 90 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianEmpty shelves at a supermarket in Patillas, Puerto Rico, on August 28.Hide Caption 91 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianPeople stock up with groceries and water in Fort Lauderdale.Hide Caption 92 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianYa Mary Morales and Henry Sustache put plywood over the windows of their home in Yabucoa, Puerto Rico, on August 28. Puerto Rico was ultimately spared the brunt of hurricane-force winds.Hide Caption 93 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianWorkers prepare a store's exterior in Humacao, Puerto Rico, on August 28.Hide Caption 94 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianCars line up for fuel at a gas station in Mayaguez, Puerto Rico, on Tuesday, August 27.Hide Caption 95 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianMen board up a shop's windows in Boqueron, Puerto Rico, on August 27.Hide Caption 96 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianMunicipal employees clear debris in Ponce, Puerto Rico, on August 27.Hide Caption 97 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianResidents board up a storefront pharmacy in Bridgetown, Barbados, on Monday, August 26.Hide Caption 98 of 99 Photos: Hurricane DorianResidents stand in line at a grocery store in Bridgetown on August 26.Hide Caption 99 of 99"The scientific consensus is that we're going to see more intense storms, so we have to research and test for more intense storms," said Olson. "Otherwise, nature's going to keep hitting us with harder stuff than we're ready for."  The facility will be the first of its kind in the world to combine wind speeds of greater magnitude along with a water component. Eventually the facility will be able to test how different types of infrastructure, roads, bridges will all respond with a Category 6 storm. "We can start putting all of these components together to get a much better picture of what nature is going to be hitting us with," says Olson.  Yes, I realized I just referred to it as a Category 6 storm. And it might make some of you a little uncomfortable. To be honest, it bothers me a little bit too. But to be fair, if you look at the wind scale for the hurricanes, they are all -- more or less -- in about 20 mph increments. When a Category 5 hurricane's wind speeds start at 157 mph, and we see storms with maximum sustained winds of 180 mph, it's a number that makes me go pale.  Since 2010, there have been 18 storms globally with recorded wind speeds of at least 178 mph at some point during their life span. Irma in 2017 and Dorian in 2019 were two storms in the Atlantic to meet the threshold.  It begs the question, especially for messaging purposes, do these types of storms need a special name? Category 6? Super-hurricane? Just something to put an exclamation point on how intense these specific storms are.  But the truth of the matter is, most people who die in hurricanes don't die from wind, but from water. I reached out to my friend, Dennis Feltgen, the public affairs officer at the National Hurricane Center (NHC) about whether he thought there would ever be a day in our future we would see a Category 6, and here is what he had to say:  "NHC has tried to steer the focus toward the individual hazards, which include storm surge, wind, rainfall, tornadoes and rip currents, instead of the particular category of the storm, which only provides information about the hazard from wind. Category 5 on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale already captures 'Catastrophic Damage' from wind, so it's not clear that there would be a need for another category even if storms were to get stronger. In addition, most deaths in tropical cyclones occur not from the wind but from water -- storm surge, rainfall/inland flooding, and hazardous surf -- causing about 90 percent of tropical cyclone deaths in the United States. So, we don't want to overemphasize the wind hazard by placing too much emphasis on the category."  I do agree with Dennis, but I also think as storms become stronger, wetter and slower, there might be a day the category system evolves from what it is now, just as the EF scale or Fujita scale was enhanced in 2007. And by the way, the same facility will also test tornado and thunderstorm winds. There are a few research facilities studying extreme winds. Watch the video below to see what 100 mph winds can do to a house.  JUST WATCHEDWatch what winds over 100 mph do to this houseReplayMore Videos ...MUST WATCHWatch what winds over 100 mph do to this house 01:24"I think the interaction between the various components of hurricanes, the waves, the flooding, the currents, and the wind, the debris, all of that, it's very important to simulate that as practically as possible," said Dr. Arindam Gan Chowdhury, professor of environmental engineering at FIU. "Everything is not possible to replicate Mother Nature. But the closer we can get, the better we can learn." FIU along with seven other universities will partner in this endeavor. Read the full news release from FIU here.