 (CNN)Here is a look at the life of France's President Emmanuel Macron.PersonalBirth date: December 21, 1977Birth place: Amiens, FranceBirth name: Emmanuel Jean-Michel Frédéric MacronRead MoreFather: Jean-Michel Macron, professor of neurologyMother: Françoise Noguès-Macron, physicianMarriage: Brigitte Trogneux (2007-present)Education: Université Paris Nanterre; Institut d'Études Politiques de Paris ("Sciences Po"); École Nationale d'Administration, 2004Religion: Baptized Roman Catholic when he was 12, but his spokesperson describes him as a "spiritual agnostic"Other FactsAt age 39, Macron became the youngest president in French history.Prior to being elected president of France, he had never held elected office.Macron, a centrist, has said his aim is not to bring people to either the right or the left, but to unite the French people.During his time as economy minister, he spearheaded the so-called "Macron Law," which aimed to shake up the economy through labor reform. The measure had to be forced through the National Assembly with the help of a controversial parliamentary measure and led to several days of protest.Worked on Francois Hollande's 2012 presidential campaign.Macron's wife, Brigitte Trogneux, was his high school drama teacher. By the time Macron was 17, he claimed he would eventually marry her, though she was married with three children at the time.Timeline2004-2008 - Finance inspector with the ministry of economy.2008-2012 - Investment banker at Rothschild & Cie Banque in Paris.2012-June 2014 - Serves as President Hollande's deputy secretary-general.August 26, 2014 - Replaces Arnaud Montebourg as Minister of Economy, Industry and Digital Affairs.2015 - Is the chief architect of an economic reform bill for growth, activity and equal opportunities. The law becomes known as the "Macron Law."April 6, 2016 - Announces the launch of the political movement En Marche! ("On the Move!").August 30, 2016 - Resigns as economy minister. As Macron announces his resignation, he suggests he needs time to prepare for a presidential bid, stating "I am determined to do everything so our values, ideas and actions can transform France starting next year."November 16, 2016 - Officially declares he is running for president of France.November 2016 - Macron's book, "Révolution," is published. It lays out his vision for France.April 23, 2017 - In the first round of the presidential election, Macron receives more than 23% of the vote, with far-right candidate Marine Le Pen just under 22%.May 5, 2017 - Less than 48 hours before the second and final round of the presidential election, Macron is the victim of a "massive and coordinated hacking operation," according to his campaign team. Around 14.5 gigabytes of emails, personal and business documents are posted to the text-sharing site, Pastebin, through links to more than 70,000 files. Officials from Macron's En Marche! party say the perpetrators of the hack mixed fake documents with authentic ones "to create confusion and misinformation."May 7, 2017 - Macron defeats Le Pen with more than 66% of the vote, to become France's next president.May 14, 2017 - Sworn in as president.May 29, 2017 - During a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin, Macron calls for an end to an alleged crackdown on gay men in Chechnya. June 11, 2017 - Macron's party wins the majority of votes during the first round of parliamentary elections, albeit with low voter turnout. Less than 50% of people cast ballots.   June 18, 2017 - France holds its second round of parliamentary elections and, with 97% of voting results tallied, Macron's party is on track to win a decisive majority of 300 seats.June 23, 2017 - Macron and former California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger appear in a video together discussing climate change. In the clip, posted by Schwarzenegger on Twitter, Macron says that he and Schwarzenegger will "make the planet great again," echoing the campaign slogan of US President Donald Trump. July 3, 2017 - A spokeswoman for the Paris Prosecutor's office says that police have foiled an assassination plot against Macron. Authorities say that a 23-year-old man had been planning to attack Macron during a Bastille Day parade in Paris. The suspect, a self-described right-wing nationalist, told investigators that he wanted to make a political statement. Separately, Macron delivers a speech to legislators in which he pledges to lift the country's terrorism-prompted state of emergency later in the year.   April 25, 2018 - Addresses a joint meeting of Congress. During his speech, Macron presses the United States to engage more in global affairs and rejoin the Paris Climate Agreement. December 10, 2018 - Macron responds to weeks of violent protests in a televised address saying the demonstrations have been "unacceptable" and "will not be in any way indulged." He also proposes several social reforms, such as an increase in the minimum wage. December 3, 2019 - During a NATO summit news briefing in London, Macron stands by his comments warning that Europe is facing the "brain death of NATO," caused by American indifference to the transatlantic alliance. Trump called the comments "nasty" and "insulting."  Macron's blunt comments came after the Trump Administration pulled US forces out of northern Syria in November, a move that dismayed European NATO members. October 2, 2020 - While speaking in Les Mureaux, a northwestern suburb of Paris, Macron says that "Islam is a religion that is currently experiencing a crisis all over the world" and details a plan in the hopes of fighting "Islamist separatism."October 21, 2020 - At a national memorial event for teacher Samuel Paty who was beheaded in a terrorist attack in a northern Paris suburb after displaying the controversial Charlie Hebdo cartoons to his students during a lesson, Macron praises the teacher for having "a passion for knowledge." France will keep "loving debates, reasonable arguments, we will love science and its controversies," the President adds. "We will not give up caricatures, drawings, even if others are retreating."December 17, 2020 - Macron tests positive for coronavirus after experiencing symptoms and will self-isolate for a week according to a statement from his office. June 8, 2021 - While speaking to the public during a visit to southeast France, Macron is slapped in the face by a man in a crowd, video of the incident posted on social media shows. The man is later sentenced to four months in prison.September 22, 2021 - US President Joe Biden and Macron speak for the first time after a major diplomatic crisis exploded between the two longtime allies over a deal to equip Australia with nuclear-powered submarines. In their phone call, Biden and Macron agree to meet in person at the end of next month in Europe. Photos: French vote for next presidentFrench President-elect Emmanuel Macron stands with his wife Brigitte Trogneux in front of the Pyramid at the Louvre Museum in Paris on Sunday, May 7, 2017, after the second round of the French presidential election. Macron soundly defeated far-right candidate Marine Le Pen.Hide Caption 1 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentEmmanuel Macron addresses supporters at The Louvre on May 7 after winning the French Presidential Election.Hide Caption 2 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentSupporters of French presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron celebrate outside the Louvre in Paris after Macron won the second round of the election.Hide Caption 3 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentSupporters of Macron celebrate at the Louvre Museum in Paris on May 7.Hide Caption 4 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentMarine Le Pen, candidate of the far-right Front National party,  delivers a speech in Paris on May 7 after losing to Macron.Hide Caption 5 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentLe Pen supporters react to the election results in Paris on May 7.Hide Caption 6 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentA polling official counts ballots on May 7 in Quimper, France.Hide Caption 7 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentVoting officials count the votes at a polling station on the Island of Chausey, France.Hide Caption 8 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentPolling officials count the ballots on May 7, in Saint-Denis de la Reunion, on the French Indian Ocean island of La Reunion. French citizens worldwide are casting their votes during the second round of the country's presidential vote. Hide Caption 9 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentMacron waves as he leaves a polling station after casting his ballot in Le Touquet, France, on May 7.Hide Caption 10 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentTwin sisters leave a polling station in Nice, France after voting on May 7 in the second round of the French presidential election. Hide Caption 11 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentSoldiers patrol the grounds around The Louvre in Paris on May 7 where Emmanuel Macron will celebrate later should he win the election. Earlier in the day the The Louvre was cleared due to a security alert. Hide Caption 12 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentElection signs at a polling station in Rennes, France on May 7.Hide Caption 13 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentA woman enters a voting booth in Saint Jean de Luz, France, Sunday, May 7.Hide Caption 14 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentFrench presidential candidate Marine Le Pen moves to shakes hands with a woman at a polling station in Henin-Beaumont, France, Le Pen's home town.  Hide Caption 15 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentA Femen activist protesting Marine Le Pen's National Front party is arrested by police in Henin-Beaumont, France, Sunday, May 7. Hide Caption 16 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentFrench presidential election candidate Emmanuel Macron leaves his home to go vote in Le Touquet, France. Hide Caption 17 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentOutgoing French President Francois Hollande looks out of a window in Tulle, France on May 7. Hide Caption 18 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentPeople queue at a polling station in Marseille, France.Hide Caption 19 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentA voter arrives at a polling station in Marseille, France, on Sunday, May 7. Hide Caption 20 of 21 Photos: French vote for next presidentA man looks at election posters of the French presidential candidates, Emmanuel Macron and Marine Le Pen, at the French consulate in Jerusalem, on May 7. French citizens worldwide are casting their votes during the second round of the country's presidential vote.  Hide Caption 21 of 21