London (CNN)Queen Elizabeth II has described being left with a "huge void in her life" after her husband Prince Philip's death, their son Prince Andrew said Sunday. Speaking to media after attending a service at the chapel at Royal Lodge Windsor, the Duke of York said: "I feel very sorry and supportive of my mother who is feeling it probably more than anybody else."Philip, the lifelong companion of the Queen and the longest-serving consort in British history, died at the age of 99 on Friday. His body will lie at Windsor Castle until his funeral on Saturday. "He was a remarkable man, I loved him as a father. He was so calm. If you had a problem he would think about it," Andrew said. "He was always someone you could go to."Prince Philip and Prince Andrew at Epsom Racecourse, England, in June 2016.The news of Philip's death was met with an outpouring of tributes from around the world, including messages from every living US President and other world leaders. Read MoreThe royal family themselves are "all feeling a great sense of loss," Andrew said. "We've lost almost the grandfather of the nation." Asked how his mother is feeling, the duke replied: "The Queen as you would expect is an incredibly stoic person. And she described his passing as a miracle. And she's contemplating."She described it as having left a huge void in her life," he said, adding that the family is "rallying around to make sure that we're there to support her." Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipFlowers are left at Windsor Castle's Cambridge Gate on Saturday, April 10.Hide Caption 1 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipNew South Wales Premier Gladys Berejiklian, left, sits with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Morrison's wife, Jenny, as they attend a special prayer service in Sydney to commemorate Prince Philip on Sunday, April 11.Hide Caption 2 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipA young member of the St. Andrew's Cathedral choir squints in the sunlight following the commemorative service in Sydney.Hide Caption 3 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipMembers of the Royal Gibraltar Regiment march before firing a 41-gun salute in Gibraltar on Saturday, April 10.Hide Caption 4 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipMembers of the 105th Regiment Royal Artillery fire a 41-round gun salute at Edinburgh Castle in Scotland.Hide Caption 5 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipA portrait of Prince Philip is placed with flowers and candles in front of the British Embassy in Berlin.Hide Caption 6 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipA man arrives to lay flowers outside London's Buckingham Palace on Friday, April 9.Hide Caption 7 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipSoccer players stand for two minutes of silence before an under-23 match in Manchester, England.Hide Caption 8 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipPiper Ken Wilson plays the "Heights of Dargai" in honor of Prince Philip while the Canadian flag flies at half-staff at the British Columbia Legislature.Hide Caption 9 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipTwo people console each other in front of Buckingham Palace.Hide Caption 10 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipAn official notice announcing Philip's death is placed on the gates of Buckingham Palace.Hide Caption 11 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipNews of Philip's death can be seen on television screens at a shop in Nairobi, Kenya.Hide Caption 12 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipA Prince Philip tribute is projected onto a large screen at London's Piccadilly Circus.Hide Caption 13 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipJockeys and trainers stand for a minute of silence at the Grand National Festival in Liverpool, England.Hide Caption 14 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipA family looks at flowers outside Windsor Castle on Friday.Hide Caption 15 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipA person in London takes a copy of a newspaper with a Philip tribute on the front page.Hide Caption 16 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipPeople gather outside Buckingham Palace, where the flag was flying at half-staff.Hide Caption 17 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipA note is left outside Windsor Castle.Hide Caption 18 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipA flag flies at half-staff in Belfast, Northern Ireland.Hide Caption 19 of 19Andrew, often referred to as the Queen's favorite son, has stepped back from public duties after a disastrous 2019 interview with the BBC over his association with prominent sex offender and disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein.Prince Edward, the Queen and Prince Philip's youngest child, described the sense of shock over his father's death.'The Crown' effect: How a TV show introduced Prince Philip to a generation of Americans  "However much one tries to prepare oneself for something like this, it's still a dreadful shock and we're still trying to come to terms with that and it's very, very sad," Edward, the Earl of Wessex, told the media after the same service.He added that the royal family is appreciative of the "extraordinary tributes, and the memories that everybody has had."Edward's wife Sophie, Countess of Wessex, noted how Philip "always exchanged words with everybody" in and around the royal estates. "They all meant a lot to him, and he always took a very personal interest in everything that they were doing. So they all have got stories to tell him. Most of them are quite funny as well," she added.Princess Anne, the Queen and Philip's only daughter, said the duke was her "teacher," "supporter" and "critic." "His ability to treat every person as an individual in their own right with their own skills comes through all the organisations with which he was involved," she said in a statement Sunday. "We will miss him but he leaves a legacy which can inspire us all.""You know it's going to happen but you are never really ready," the princess added.