 (CNN)Mehdi Taremi scored a truly spectacular overhead kick on Tuesday to become the first Iranian player to score in the Champions League quarterfinals. The Porto striker delivered his stunning effort in the final moments of his side's 1-0 win over Chelsea but it wasn't enough to overturn the 2-0 deficit from the first leg.Despite the goal counting for relatively nothing in the match, it will still live long in the memory. The 28-year-old lept into the air before firing his acrobatic effort into the far corner of the net, leaving Chelsea goalkeeper Edouard Mendy helpless. He wasn't even able to celebrate, with his team needing another goal in less than two minutes to force extra time. "We played a great game, we showed that we are a great team, but unfortunately my goal wasn't enough," Taremi said after the match. Read MoreREAD: Barcelona pips fierce rival Real Madrid to be named the world's most valuable clubMehdi Taremi scored an incredible goal against Chelsea. Moment of magic Taremi, who was returning from injury, started the match on the bench but came on with 30 minutes to go with his team searching for goals. His moment of magic will leave fans wondering what could have been if he had been fit enough to start both legs. The Iran international started his career in his native country before moving to Qatari club Al-Gharafa. He then arrived in Europe relatively unknown but with a determination to succeed. According to an interview given to Portuguese newspaper O Jogo, Taremi said he turned down a huge contract -- worth $2.9 million (2.5 million euros) -- in Qatar to make it in Portugal. He hasn't looked back since. Iranian star Jahanbakhsh denies Chelsea with overhead wonder goalHe moved to Porto from rival Portuguese team Rio Ave in 2020 and is now a vital member of the team. Iranians both in the country and abroad, ranging from current and former players, actors, athletes and even ministry officials displayed their pride after Taremi scored his goal on Tuesday. And he's not the only Iranian partial to an extraordinary overhead kick either. Back in January 2020, Iranian Alireza Jahanbakhsh scored a wonder overhead kick for Brighton in the Premier League. After surviving the late scare, Chelsea progresses into the semifinal of the Champions League where it will face either Real Madrid or Liverpool.Speaking after the match, Blues boss Thomas Tuchel incredibly called Taremi's effort "lucky" and praised his team for its pragmatic performance in the second leg. "We accepted what was needed, it was a tough, tough fight," Tuchel told BT Sport after full time. Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, features, and videos"Maybe on the television it was not so nice to watch but on the sidelines it was a very intense game, a very fast game. "It was very hard to play against them to escape the pressure but with every minute we did it better and better."