CNN columnist John D. Sutter is spending the rest of the year reporting on a tiny number -- 2 degrees -- that may have a huge impact on the future of the planet. He'd like your help. Subscribe to the "2 degrees" newsletter or follow him on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. You can shape his coverage. (CNN)tl;dr version: You can vote on the first story I'll report as part of this new series on 2 degrees Celsius -- which is the agreed-upon threshold for dangerous climate change. Go here if you don't see the poll. Thanks!* * * * *In 2013, I did something that's a little scary for a journalist.I asked you to tell me what to cover. In the two years since, I've traveled the world writing about social justice issues that you selected in an online poll: I went undercover in Southeast Asia to follow the illegal trade in the pangolin, the world's most trafficked mammal; I flew to a lawless town in Alaska to learn why that state has America's highest rate of reported rape; I spent three weeks kayaking (and walking) a river in California that's so dry it fails to reach the sea; and I met a family in Silicon Valley that's living in a garage despite that region's booming wealth from the technology sector. Read MoreThose experiences have strengthened my belief in the power of democratic journalism. Editors shouldn't get all the control. You, the audience, have a vital say, too.Still, in the two years since I asked for your ideas, I haven't done much, if anything, to address one of the topics you most frequently asked me to cover: climate change. I'm hoping to make good on your request now. Starting today, Earth Day, I'm planning to spend the rest of the year writing about one tiny little number -- 2 degrees. It may be the most important number you've never heard of. Maybe that plan sounds excessive. (Eight months reporting on one number!?) But here's why it matters: If we humans warm the world more than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit), we greatly up the odds of climate catastrophes. Think super droughts, rising seas, mass extinctions and acidifying oceans. We don't want to cross that mark.Humans never have lived in post-2-degree world, said Carlo Jaeger, chair of the Global Climate Forum, based in Germany, and author of a paper on this history of 2 degrees."If we start warming the planet way beyond what humans have ever experienced, God knows what will wait for us," he told me. Good news, though. If we drastically cut carbon emissions, we can stay below the 2-degree threshold. As part of this series, I'll be exploring exactly what it would take to do so.This matters a great deal this year, since the United Nations will gather leaders and policy experts in Paris in December to try to hammer out a new international agreement on climate change. Two degrees will be one useful benchmark to see if the world is on track."It's almost kind of like a truth keeping mechanism," said Jennifer Morgan, global director of the climate change program at the World Resources Institute. "It would be hard if it didn't exist to have a sense of whether countries are on track or not."It's not a perfect yardstick. But it's a reasonable one. Think of it like a speed limit, said Jaeger, the economist in Germany. Would a 51 mph limit be better than 50? Or maybe it should  be 49? The point isn't the exact number, it's the ballpark: 200 mph would certainly be too fast, as he put it, but 20 mph is too slow. For climate change, the point is we don't know the world will fall into crisis at exactly 2 degrees and not 2.1 or 1.8. But that range is certainly dangerous."The way I think of it is like smoking," said Katharine Hayhoe, an atmospheric scientist and director of the Climate Science Center at Texas Tech. "How many cigarettes are too many? I don't know. I have no idea. Nobody has any idea. But we do know the more cigarettes you smoke, the greater the risk."Two degrees, then, is our most educated estimate. A way to focus attention. It's incredibly valuable in that respect.  Since the number emerged from a relatively obscure academic paper in the 1970s, it's become widely agreed upon in the international community. In 2009, for example, 114 countries initially signed onto the "Copenhagen Accord," a nonbinding agreement that recognizes the "scientific view that the increase in global temperature should be below 2 degrees Celsius."That level of consensus is rare on this topic. "If there's one thing the world has agreed upon about climate change it's 2 degrees should be the benchmark," said Jamie Henn, co-founder of 350.org, an advocacy group.I'll be writing more about the origins of 2 degrees soon -- where this number came from (one guy, turns out, and I chatted with him), how soon we may cross that mark if we don't take action (short answer: 2050), and how much we've warmed the planet since the start of the industrial revolution, in the late 1800s, which is how these temperature increases are usually measured (0.85 degrees).Right now, though, I'd like to ask you to do something that's scary and exciting. I want you to vote on the first project I'll report for this series.All of the options center on one theme: What does a post-2-degree world look like?I love that question because it -- like all six choices you'll see below -- came from you.CNN hosted a Facebook chat on Friday, asking our audience to come up with questions for me about climate change or about 2 degrees of warming. Many of you said you wanted to know what a 2-degree world would have in store, in general. Other folks asked about specific impacts to people and ecosystems if the climate continues to inch toward that dangerous 2-degree mark.Clay Miller, from Alaska, for example, asked about the Arctic.Cindy Johnson wanted to know which animals would go extinct first.Jon Locke was among those curious about farms. And many of you, including Kayla Helton, from Florida, asked about rising seas. Kelly, a 48-year-old from California, wanted to know what would happen to "climate refugees" as the coast vanishes.Now it's your turn. Pick the idea you like best. Tell CNN's John Sutter which of these climate change stories you like best - and he'll report on the winner. This poll closes Monday, April 27, at 5pm ET. #2degreesPosted by CNN on Tuesday, April 21, 2015The topic with the most votes on Monday at 5 p.m. ET is the one I'll report in May.Look for more votes like this in the future as we explore this number together.If you'd like to follow along, consider subscribing to my "2-degree" newsletter. Or you can track me down on the usual social networks, including Snapchat. I'm @jdsutter on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. I think of this kind of like non-fiction improv: You throw out the prompts, and I'll go out there looking for the most interesting and informative story. It's an experiment, to be sure. And it scares the hell out of me. But climate change is a topic so big -- so critical to the future of our planet and humanity species -- that we've gotta be in this together. Photos: Effects of global warming around the worldMelting polar ice caps – The consequences of climate change go far beyond warming temperatures, which scientists say are melting the polar ice caps and raising sea levels. Click through the gallery for a look at 10 other key effects of climate change, some of which may surprise you.Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Effects of global warming around the worldDrought – In the coming decades climate change will unleash megadroughts lasting 10 years or more, according to a new report by scholars at Cornell University, the University of Arizona and the U.S. Geological Survey. We're seeing hints of this already in many arid parts of the world and even in California, which has been rationing water amid record drought. In this 2012 photo, a man places his hand on parched soil in the Greater Upper Nile region of northeastern South Sudan.Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Effects of global warming around the worldWildfires – There's not a direct link between climate change and wildfires, exactly. But many scientists believe the increase in wildfires in the Western United States is partly the result of tinder-dry forests parched by warming temperatures. This photo shows a wildfire as it approaches the shore of Bass Lake, California, in mid-September. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Effects of global warming around the worldCoral reefs – Scientists say the oceans' temperatures have risen by more than 1 degree Fahrenheit over the last century. It doesn't sound like much, but it's been enough to affect the fragile ecosystems of coral reefs, which have been bleaching and dying off in recent decades. This photo shows dead coral off the coast of St. Martin's Island in Bangladesh.Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Effects of global warming around the worldFood prices – A U.N. panel found in March that climate change -- mostly drought -- is already affecting the global agricultural supply and will likely drive up food prices. Here, in 2010, workers on combines harvest soybeans in northern Brazil. Global food experts have warned that climate change could double grain prices by 2050. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Effects of global warming around the worldPollen allergies – Are you sneezing more often these days? Climate change may be to blame for that, too. Recent studies show that rising temperatures and carbon dioxide levels promote the growth of weedy plant species that produce allergenic pollen. The worst place in the United States for spring allergies in 2014, according to the Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America? Louisville, Kentucky. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Effects of global warming around the worldDeforestation – Climate change has not been kind to the world's forests. Invasive species such as the bark beetle, which thrive in warmer temperatures, have attacked trees across the North American west, from Mexico to the Yukon. University of Colorado researchers have found that some populations of mountain pine beetles now produce two generations per year, dramatically boosting the bugs' threat to lodgepole and ponderosa pines. In this 2009 photo, dead spruces of the Yukon's Alsek River valley attest to the devastation wrought by the beetles.Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Effects of global warming around the worldMountain glaciers – The snows capping majestic Mount Kilimanjaro, Africa's highest peak, once inspired Ernest Hemingway. Now they're in danger of melting away altogether. Studies suggest that if the mountain's snowcap continues to evaporate at its current rate, it could be gone in 15 years. Here, a Kilimanjaro glacier is viewed from Uhuru Peak in December 2010.Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Effects of global warming around the worldEndangered species – Polar bears may be the poster child for climate change's effect on animals. But scientists say climate change is wreaking havoc on many other species -- including birds and reptiles -- that are sensitive to fluctuations in temperatures. One, this golden toad of Costa Rica and other Central American countries, has already gone extinct.Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Effects of global warming around the worldAnimal migration – It's not your imagination: Some animals -- mostly birds -- are migrating earlier and earlier every year because of warming global temperatures. Scholars from the University of East Anglia found that Icelandic black-tailed godwits have advanced their migration by two weeks over the past two decades. Researchers also have found that many species are migrating to higher elevations as temperatures climb.Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Effects of global warming around the worldExtreme weather – The planet could see as many as 20 more hurricanes and tropical storms each year by the end of the century because of climate change, according to a 2013 study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. This image shows Superstorm Sandy bearing down on the New Jersey coast in 2012.Hide Caption 11 of 11