 (CNN)Steph Curry's hot streak just got hotter.It might be a season of transition for the Golden State Warriors, yet the two-time NBA Most Valuable Player has excelled and continued his record-breaking scoring streak on Monday night. Curry scored 49 points in his team's 107-96 win over the Philadelphia 76ers, breaking Kobe Bryant's record for consecutive 30-point games by a player aged 33 or older. The three-time NBA champion has now scored more than 30 points in 11 straight games, surpassing Bryant's record of 10 set in December 2012. READ: Meet Ayesha McGowan, the first Black American woman in pro cyclingRead MoreCurry shoots against the Philadelphia 76ers.Currry's run of form comes a week after he overtook Wilt Chamberlain as the Warriors' all-time leading scorer."From Wilt's [record] last week and then this streak, I'm obviously aware," Curry told the media in his post-game press conference. "But you don't put too much pressure on yourself, you just play basketball. "Being aggressive, obviously, but kind of letting the game come to you. For me, that looks a certain type of way, but I'm having a blast out there just playing basketball and it's obviously working."Curry is now averaging 39.9 points, 6.6 rebounds and 4.3 assists over 10 games in April. His 49 points was his fifth 40-point game in April which passes Bryant and Michael Jordan for the most 40-point games in a month by a player aged 33 or older.With 47 and 49 points in his last two games, Curry became the first player aged 33 or older with back-to-back 45-plus point games since Jordan did it in 2001. A primary factor in Curry's success over his career has been his three-point range proficiency. He is second in the all time three pointer ranking list behind Ray Allen. And in his recent tear, Curry has been connecting from deep with even more consistency, making 46 three pointers over the last five games. No one in NBA history has made more. Curry hit 10 threes on Monday night which was his sixth game with 10 or more threes this season. No other player has more than five in their career.Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, features, and videosCurry goes for a shot during the first half of the game against the Philadelphia 76ers.No wonder his teammate Andrew Wiggins called Curry "one of a kind." Meanwhile Warriors coach Steve Kerr, who has coached Curry to three memorable championship wins, regards the guard's hot streak as something that is "above and beyond.""I've seen Kobe Bryant early in his career ... had a stretch where he went nuts," Kerr told the media. "Obviously, Michael Jordan had some stretches where he just scored like crazy, but obviously nobody's ever shot the ball like this in the history of the game. Even by Steph's own lofty standards, this is above and beyond."Curry's recent play has helped the Warriors post their best stretch of the season, having won five of their past six games. 