 (CNN)Some of the brands sponsoring Euro 2020 -- Europe's ongoing international football tournament -- aren't having an easy time of it.First it was Cristiano Ronaldo with two bottles of Coca-Cola, then it was Paul Pogba with a Heineken.Before Portugal's game against Hungary, Ronaldo moved the two drinks on display out of view as he sat down to take questions from the media. He then picked up a bottle of water -- saying, "Water!" -- seemingly encouraging people to drink that instead.Then after France's 1-0 victory against Germany Tuesday, Pogba, who was named man of the match, removed a bottle of non-alcoholic Heineken beer that was placed in front of him. Pogba said on Twitter in 2017 that he does not drink alcohol. Both Heineken and Coca-Cola are official sponsors of Euro 2020. Read MorePogba, who starred in France's 1-0 victory against Germany, removes a Heineken bottle during a press conference. Coca-Cola said it would not be commenting on Ronaldo's removal of the bottles when contacted by CNN and pointed towards a statement from UEFA, European football's governing body."Coca-Cola offers a range of drinks to suit different tastes and needs, which are available to players throughout the tournament," said UEFA's statement.Euro 2020How a nation of just 11 million people became world's top-ranked football teamStunning long range goal lights up Euro 2020Christian Eriksen sends message to Danish teammates from hospital after collapsing Euro 2020: 24 teams playing across 51 matches in 11 host cities"This includes waters, isotonic sports drinks and juices, coffee and tea, as well as Coca-Cola. Players are offered water, alongside Coca-Cola and Coca-Cola Zero Sugar, on arrival at our press conferences and can choose their preferred beverage."READ: 'Kick out oil' protester parachutes into Allianz Arena stadium ahead of Euro 2020 matchIn a statement to CNN, Heineken said: "We fully respect everyone's decision when it comes to their beverage of choice."UEFA did not respond to CNN's request for comment.Ronaldo didn't appear to be happy with the two Coca-Cola bottles on display during his press conference. Ronaldo, who scored two goals in Portugal's 3-0 victory against Hungary to become the greatest goal scorer in European Championship finals history, caught the eye of Tampa Bay Buccaneers quarterback Tom Brady after snubbing the bottles of Coca-Cola. "It's almost like the veterans know what they're doing," Brady, who has advocated drinking at least half of your body weight in ounces of water a day, wrote on Twitter.Pogba's agent declined to comment when contacted by CNN. Representatives for Ronaldo did not immediately respond to a request for comment.  CNN's John Sinnott and Aleks Klosok contributed to reporting. 