 (CNN)Karim Benzema netted a hat-trick and new signing Eduardo Camavinga also scored as Real Madrid defeated Celta Vigo 5-2 in La Liga on Sunday. In Real Madrid's first match at the Santiago Bernabéu in 560 days following renovation work at the stadium, the home side twice had to come from behind to secure the win with four second-half goals. "It was a special night for us due to the fans being back and the atmosphere they created," said Benzema. "The first half was a bit weird because we have to get used to the crowd again ... I always say that we need the support of our fans, they gave us their all and you could see that in the second half."Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, videos and featuresRead MoreThe game got off to a disastrous start for Real Madrid as Santi Mina capitalized on a defensive mix-up to put Celta ahead after just four minutes. Benzema equalized when his bouncing shot went in off the crossbar, but Celta took the lead again when Franco Cervi flicked a shot onto the post and scored with the rebound. Benzema celebrates his second goal after a brilliant cross by Miguel Gutiérrez. READ: Cristiano Ronaldo scores two goals on his return to Manchester UnitedBenzema got his second with a header right at the start of the second half and Real Madrid took the lead for the first time in the match nine minutes later when the Frenchman's through ball was calmly finished by Vinícius Jr. The 18-year-old Camavinga, a new signing from Rennes, then got his first goal for Real Madrid having only been on the pitch for six minutes as he followed up on a surging run and shot by Luka Modrić.A foul on Vinícius Jr. allowed Benzema to complete his hat-trick with a penalty, wrapping up a comfortable win for Real Madrid, which now leads La Liga on 10 points. Camavinga marked the start of his Real Madrid career with a goal. Despite failing to sign Paris Saint-Germain striker Kylian Mbappé over the summer, Carlo Ancelotti's side has shown that goals won't necessarily be hard to come by this season having scored 13 in the opening four league games.  "We showed our quality up top," Ancelotti said after the game. "We have to improve defensively, which let us down a bit. We're missing some key players in the likes of (David) Alaba and (Ferland) Mendy, but we have to help ourselves out more when we've not got the ball."