This article was written soon after former Minneapolis Police officer Derek Chauvin was found guilty on all charges in the death of George Floyd. Athletes were among those to speak out after the verdict in April 2021. (CNN)It isn't the end. It's just the beginning. This isn't about Derek Chauvin. It's about George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, Jacob Blake, Eric Garner, Tamir Rice, Tony Robinson, Philando Castile, Alton Sterling and so many others -- too many more Black people being killed on a regular basis by police officers for whom those lives simply don't matter.It isn't about justice. Justice would have been Floyd apprehended instead of murdered.You're kidding yourself if you think sports stars are more preoccupied right now with the uproar over football's aborted European Super League than the verdict in the Chauvin case over the murder that rocked the world last year.They aren't. Not the ones I spoke to on Wednesday. Or the ones I exchanged text messages with. For them, it is all about Floyd.  Read MoreOn both sides of the Atlantic, Black sports stars know that they have to operate on the basis that it could easily be them. It could easily be them kissing their kids or their partners for the last time before falling victim to police officers who are protected by a badge. That's why they won't just shut up and dribble. That's why they take a knee. That's why they won't stick to playing football or accept it is time to move on.READ: Conversation around taking a knee means people are 'forgetting' the true cause Photos: The sports world has been taking a standMembers of the Los Angeles Lakers and the Miami Heat kneel during the National Anthem before Game 1 of the NBA Finals on Wednesday, September 30.Hide Caption 1 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standThe Philadelphia Eagles and the Washington Football Team stand together before their NFL season opener on September 13.Hide Caption 2 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standTyler Wright, a two-time World Surf League Champion, takes a knee before competing in an event in Tweed Heads South, Australia, on September 13.Hide Caption 3 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standTennis star Naomi Osaka wears a face mask with Tamir Rice's name before winning the US Open final on September 12. Osaka wore a different name for each of her seven matches. Rice, a 12-year-old boy, was killed by police gunfire in Cleveland while he was holding a toy replica pistol in 2014.Hide Caption 4 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standChelsea's Pernille Harder walks out for a warm-up before a soccer match in Leigh, England, on September 6.Hide Caption 5 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standThe University of Alabama football team, led by coach Nick Saban, marches on campus in support of the Black Lives Matter movement.Hide Caption 6 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standBlack Lives Matter signage is seen in New York's Louis Armstrong Stadium as Cori Gauff plays against Anastasija Sevastova at the US Open.Hide Caption 7 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standMembers of the WNBA's Indiana Fever wear Black Lives Matter shirts before their game against the Chicago Sky on August 31.Hide Caption 8 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standMiami Marlins outfielder Lewis Brinson walks off the field August 27 after placing a Black Lives Matter T-shirt on home plate in New York. The Marlins and New York Mets walked off the field after a moment of silence, choosing not to play their scheduled baseball game. Hide Caption 9 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standNew Orleans Saints wide receiver Emmanuel Sanders wears Jacob Blake's name on his helmet during a practice on August 27.Hide Caption 10 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standThe Washington Mystics pay tribute to Jacob Blake after their WNBA game was postponed in Palmetto, Florida, on August 26.Hide Caption 11 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standA grounds crew covers the field at San Francisco's Oracle Park after a Major League Baseball game was postponed on August 26.Hide Caption 12 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standThe Milwaukee Bucks make a statement to the media after boycotting a playoff game on August 26.Hide Caption 13 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standDuring a practice round for the BMW Championship, pro golfer Cameron Champ used his shoes to show his support for Blake and the Black Lives Matter movement.Hide Caption 14 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standNBA superstar LeBron James has been one of the most outspoken athletes in recent months. "Having two boys of my own and me being African American in America and to see what continues to happen with the police brutality towards my kind, continue to see what goes on with just the (unjust), it's very troubling. It's very troubling," James told Turner Sports' Jared Greenberg. "My prayers go to (the Blake) family, and hopefully we can have some change." Hide Caption 15 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a stand"End racism" banners are shown in Toronto's Scotiabank Arena before an NHL playoff game on August 26.Hide Caption 16 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standDoc Rivers, head coach of the NBA's Los Angeles Clippers, became emotional while talking about the Blake shooting and the Republican National Convention. "All you hear is Donald Trump and all of them talking about fear," Rivers said. "We're the ones getting killed. We're the ones getting shot. We're the ones who were denied to live in certain communities. We've been hung. We've been shot."Hide Caption 17 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standDetroit Lions defensive end Trey Flowers addresses the media with his teammates outside their practice facility on August 25. The Lions canceled their practice in light of the Blake shooting, and they discussed the incident in a team meeting that lasted hours. "We're going to spread our message; we're going to do it as a team," Flowers said. "We understand that somebody's going to try to skew the narrative ... get the message lost, but we're going to stay focused on the topic."Hide Caption 18 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standA Real Salt Lake fan sits in the stands after the Major League Soccer team had its game postponed on August 26.Hide Caption 19 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standNASCAR driver Bubba Wallace tweeted this selfie before a Cup Series race in Talladega, Alabama, on June 22. Fellow drivers and pit crew members walked alongside Wallace's car to show their support for him. Wallace, the only Black driver in NASCAR's top circuit, has been an outspoken advocate of the Black Lives Matter movement. Hide Caption 20 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standMembers of the NHL's Colorado Avalanche, Vegas Golden Knights, Dallas Stars and Vancouver Canucks gather together after their playoff games were postponed in Edmonton, Alberta.Hide Caption 21 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standThe Black Lives Matter protests haven't been limited to just North America. Here, professional soccer players from Aston Villa and Sheffield United take a knee as their match kicked off in Birmingham, England, on June 17. Premier League teams sported the words "Black Lives Matter" on the back of their jerseys when their seasons resumed.Hide Caption 22 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standFormula One champion Lewis Hamilton raises his fist before a race in Northampton, England, on August 9.Hide Caption 23 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standMatt Dumba of the Minnesota Wild kneels during the US National Anthem as it is played before an NHL game in Edmonton, Alberta, on August 1. Dumba, a member of the Hockey Diversity Alliance, gave a short speech before kneeling. He is circled by members of the Edmonton Oilers and the Chicago Blackhawks, who were about to play on the first day of the NHL's return.Hide Caption 24 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standSoccer players from PSG and Lyon take a knee before a Champions League semifinal in Bilbao, Spain, on August 26.Hide Caption 25 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standBeach volleyball player April Ross wears a temporary Black Lives Matter tattoo during a match in Long Beach, California, on July 19.Hide Caption 26 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standTennis players Dan Evans and Kyle Edmund join match umpire James Keothavong in taking a knee in London on June 28.Hide Caption 27 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standCricketers with the Kent Spitfires take a knee during a match in Canterbury, England.Hide Caption 28 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standFormula One driver Kimi Raikkonen wears an "end racism" shirt before a race in Barcelona, Spain, on August 16.Hide Caption 29 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standMembers of the Trinbago Knight Riders kneel before a cricket match in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago.Hide Caption 30 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standThe Washington Nationals observe a moment of silence before Major League Baseball's opening game on July 23. Their opponents, The New York Yankees, also took a knee, and the initials BLM were on the pitcher's mound for the game.Hide Caption 31 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standMajor League Soccer players participate in a pregame ceremony before the league's restart on July 8.Hide Caption 32 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standHouston Dynamo goalkeeper Cody Cropper warms up in a Black Lives Matter T-shirt on August 25.Hide Caption 33 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standThe Boston Red Sox Foundation put this sign behind Fenway Park's famous "Green Monster" outfield wall.Hide Caption 34 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standRugby players from Bath and Northampton show their support before a game in Northampton, England.Hide Caption 35 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standKansas City outfielder Jorge Soler catches a ball in front of a George Floyd sign in Minneapolis on August 15.Hide Caption 36 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standA Houston Dash player wears a Black Lives Matter armband before a NWSL match in Herriman, Utah, on July 17.Hide Caption 37 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standAfter winning the Champions League, Bayern Munich defender David Alaba wears a shirt that says "Black Lives Still Matter."Hide Caption 38 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standA Black Lives Matter sign is seen during a Major League Soccer match in Harrison, New Jersey, on August 24.Hide Caption 39 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standMembers of the San Antonio Spurs huddle before a game against Sacramento on July 31.Hide Caption 40 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standKilmarnock manager Alex Dyer, second from right, takes a knee before a soccer match in Glasgow, Scotland.Hide Caption 41 of 42 Photos: The sports world has been taking a standMembers of the Orlando Magic and Brooklyn Nets kneel during the National Anthem before the start of an NBA game on July 31.Hide Caption 42 of 42The US would probably have looked the other way had it not been for that mobile phone footage taken by teenager Darnella Frazer to leave nobody with a heart in any doubt as to who was at fault on May 25 last year.Whatever Floyd had said, whatever he had done, once he couldn't breathe he had a basic human right to be listened to.Instead, he became a microcosm of what Black people endure each day in a society that simply was not built for them.A teen with 'a cell phone and sheer guts' is credited for Derek Chauvin's murder conviction So no, Chauvin's conviction isn't the end. It isn't a time for celebration, vindication, or for deluding ourselves that a policing system rotten to the core in the US is going to change any time soon.It is only the beginning. People of all races marched together last summer as a global movement to ensure Black Lives Matter shook the foundations of our society on both sides of the Atlantic.Sports stars found their voices and realized their commercial strength. The rest of us realized we could speak truth to power. We didn't have to worry about risking our space.The fact that there is relief that the jury reached the correct verdict tells you everything. The man who shot Blake in the back seven times, paralyzing him, last year is back at work and will not face any charges. Police officers in the US and here in the UK have continued since Floyd to take Black lives and get away with it.So no. It really isn't the end. It is only the beginning.