 (CNN)The New York Mets have fired general manager Jared Porter after he reportedly sent explicit pictures to a female reporter in 2016. ESPN reported that Porter sent unsolicited, explicit texts and photos "culminating with a picture of an erect, naked penis" to the female reporter when he worked for the Chicago Cubs as the team's Director of Professional Scouting and Special Assistant. Mets owner Steven Cohen tweeted Tuesday morning: "We have terminated Jared Porter this morning. In my initial press conference I spoke about the importance of integrity and I meant it. There should be zero tolerance for this type of behavior."According to ESPN, Porter allegedly sent 62 texts, including seven photos to the reporter that weren't answered.ESPN said it obtained the messages and images in December 2017 and interviewed the reporter but chose not to report the allegations at the time after the woman said her career would be harmed if the story was released.Read MoreCNN is attempting to reach Porter for comment.Mets president Sandy Alderson released the following statement on Tuesday. "The New York Mets have terminated General Manager Jared Porter, effective immediately. Jared's actions, as reflected by events disclosed last night, failed to meet the Mets' standards for professionalism and personal conduct."Porter participating in a Zoom call in December.ESPN contacted Porter on Monday evening and he reportedly acknowledged texting with the woman. ESPN reports he initially said he had not sent any pictures of himself, but when the network confronted him about how the text messaging shows he had sent pictures, Porter reportedly told ESPN: "The more explicit ones are not of me. Those are like, kinda like joke-stock images." Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, features, and videosThe unidentified woman told ESPN: "My number one motivation is I want to prevent this from happening to someone else," she said through an interpreter. "Obviously, he's in a much greater position of power. I want to prevent that from happening again. The other thing is, I never really got the notion that he was truly sorry."According to ESPN, Porter apologized to the woman in 2016 by text after she reportedly told him that his messages were "extremely inappropriate, very offensive, and getting out of line."