London (CNN)The kidnap, rape and murder of Sarah Everard in London in March has sparked outrage and a national debate about violence against women in the United Kingdom.On Thursday, Wayne Couzens, a serving police officer at the time of the incident, was sentenced to life in prison without parole after admitting her abduction and killing. Here is a timeline leading up to his sentencing, as outlined by PA Media: Before the abduction-- 2002: Wayne Couzens joins the Kent Special Constabulary, a part-time volunteer section of the police force. Read More-- 2011: Couzens joins the Civil Nuclear Constabulary (CNC).UK police officer who murdered Sarah Everard gets life in prison with no chance of parole-- 2015: Kent Police allegedly fail to investigate an incident of indecent exposure linked to Couzens.-- September 2018: Couzens transfers to London's Metropolitan Police Service (MPS).-- 2019: He and his wife buy a small area of woodland in Ashford in Kent.-- February 2020: Couzens moves to the Parliamentary and Diplomatic Protection Command to patrol diplomatic premises.-- February 2021: He is linked to two allegations of indecent exposure, which the Metropolitan Police allegedly failed to investigate.-- February 28: Couzens books a white Vauxhall Astra from a car hire firm in Dover, Kent. The day Everard goes missing-- March 3: 4:45 p.m.: Couzens collects the hire car.-- 9 p.m.: Everard leaves her friend's house in Clapham Junction in south London to walk about 2.5 miles home.-- 9:13 p.m.: She phones her boyfriend for just over 14 minutes.-- 9:15 p.m.: Everard is captured alone on CCTV. -- 9:35 p.m.: A bus camera captures two figures beside a white Vauxhall Astra parked on the sidewalk with hazard lights flashing.-- 9:38 p.m.: Another bus camera captures the same vehicle with the two front car doors open.-- 11:38 p.m.: Couzens transfers Everard to his own car in Dover and drives towards a secluded rural area where she is raped and murdered.The aftermath-- 2:31 a.m.: Having transferred Everard to his own car, a Seat, Couzens stops at a service station in Dover to buy drinks. Everard is dead by this point.-- 3:21 a.m.: The car passes a CCTV camera near Hoad's Wood, where Everard's body is dumped. He visits the site twice, leaving just before dawn.-- 8:30 a.m.: The hire car is returned.Police alerted-- March 4: Everard's boyfriend Josh Lowth reports her missing. -- March 5: The case is escalated and the Specialist Crime Unit becomes involved.Posters requesting information near Clapham Common, London, during the investigation into Everard's disappearance.Covering his tracks-- March 5: Couzens, due to be off work until March 8, tells his employer he is suffering with stress. He buys gas and burns Everard's body and possessions inside a fridge at Hoad's Wood. He transfers the remains to a nearby pond in two green rubble bags. -- March 6: He emails his supervisor to say he no longer wants to carry a firearm. -- March 7: Couzens takes his wife and children on a family trip to the woods where he burned Everard's body.-- March 8: The officer is due to return to work but reports in sick.-- March 9: Couzens' phone is wiped of all data.Police officers conduct a fingertip search in the hunt for Everard on March 9 in London.Couzens arrested-- March 9: Couzens arrested at his home in Deal, Kent.-- March 10: Specialist police dogs discover a body in a pond close to the land owned by Couzens.-- March 11: He answers "no comment" in formal interviews.-- March 12: Couzens is charged.-- July 9: Couzens pleads guilty to murder when he appears at the Old Bailey by video link from Belmarsh high security jail.-- September 30: Couzens sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole.