Windsor, England (CNN)Buckingham Palace has revealed the 30 people who will make up the congregation at the Duke of Edinburgh's funeral service on Saturday.Prince Philip, who died last Friday at the age of 99, is being laid to rest on Saturday at 3 p.m. (10 a.m. ET) at St George's Chapel in Windsor, west of London.Arrangements for the funeral have been in the works for many years but the memorial service has had to be stripped back in light of the pandemic. The congregation of mourners will only consist of close family and friends of the beloved patriarch. However, the remembrance will retain the colorful traditions of a royal funeral and "are a reflection of The Duke's military affiliations and personal elements of His Royal Highness's life," a Buckingham Palace spokesman said Thursday. Members of the King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery ride away from Windsor Castle, west of London, on April 15.Soldiers from the Welsh Guards bow their heads as they rehearse for Prince Philip's funeral in Woking, England on Wednesday.The palace spokesman said the family was "grateful" for the condolence messages sent from across the globe. Read More"The tributes received from young and old are truly a testament to the remarkable life and lasting endeavors of His Royal Highness," he added. Over 700 Armed Forces personnel from the Royal Navy, Royal Marines, British Army and Royal Air Force will provide ceremonial support during the funeral.Princes William and Harry will reunite to walk behind the Duke of Edinburgh's coffin with their father, Charles, and other members of the royal family as part of a private procession ahead of the funeral service on Saturday. Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipFlowers are left at Windsor Castle's Cambridge Gate on Saturday, April 10.Hide Caption 1 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipNew South Wales Premier Gladys Berejiklian, left, sits with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Morrison's wife, Jenny, as they attend a special prayer service in Sydney to commemorate Prince Philip on Sunday, April 11.Hide Caption 2 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipA young member of the St. Andrew's Cathedral choir squints in the sunlight following the commemorative service in Sydney.Hide Caption 3 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipMembers of the Royal Gibraltar Regiment march before firing a 41-gun salute in Gibraltar on Saturday, April 10.Hide Caption 4 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipMembers of the 105th Regiment Royal Artillery fire a 41-round gun salute at Edinburgh Castle in Scotland.Hide Caption 5 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipA portrait of Prince Philip is placed with flowers and candles in front of the British Embassy in Berlin.Hide Caption 6 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipA man arrives to lay flowers outside London's Buckingham Palace on Friday, April 9.Hide Caption 7 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipSoccer players stand for two minutes of silence before an under-23 match in Manchester, England.Hide Caption 8 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipPiper Ken Wilson plays the "Heights of Dargai" in honor of Prince Philip while the Canadian flag flies at half-staff at the British Columbia Legislature.Hide Caption 9 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipTwo people console each other in front of Buckingham Palace.Hide Caption 10 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipAn official notice announcing Philip's death is placed on the gates of Buckingham Palace.Hide Caption 11 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipNews of Philip's death can be seen on television screens at a shop in Nairobi, Kenya.Hide Caption 12 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipA Prince Philip tribute is projected onto a large screen at London's Piccadilly Circus.Hide Caption 13 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipJockeys and trainers stand for a minute of silence at the Grand National Festival in Liverpool, England.Hide Caption 14 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipA family looks at flowers outside Windsor Castle on Friday.Hide Caption 15 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipA person in London takes a copy of a newspaper with a Philip tribute on the front page.Hide Caption 16 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipPeople gather outside Buckingham Palace, where the flag was flying at half-staff.Hide Caption 17 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipA note is left outside Windsor Castle.Hide Caption 18 of 19 Photos: Paying respects to Prince PhilipA flag flies at half-staff in Belfast, Northern Ireland.Hide Caption 19 of 19While the Queen will not take part in the procession before the service, Prince Charles and his sister Princess Anne will follow a specially modified Land Rover, which will carry the Duke's coffin to the chapel. The journey is expected to take around eight minutes. Their siblings, Edward and Andrew, will participate in the procession immediately behind them. William and Harry will come next though they will be separated from walking together by their cousin Peter Philips. And behind them will be the final family members, Anne's husband, Vice Admiral Tim Laurence, and the Earl of Snowdon.Royals who are not involved in the procession such as the Duchess of Cornwall and Duchess of Cambridge will join the 94-year-old monarch to watch the funeral parade outside the chapel's Galilee Porch. This also includes blood relatives from the Duke's side who will be in attendance including Philip's great nephews, the Hereditary Prince of Baden and the Prince of Hohenlohe-Langenburg.  The Queen returns to royal duties following Prince Philip's deathThe decision for some royals to walk behind the coffin will inevitably draw comparisons to Princess Diana's funeral in 1997 when Charles, William and Harry participated in a similar procession alongside Prince Philip and Diana's brother Earl Spencer. Saturday's memorial will be unlike any other recent royal funerals due to the coronavirus pandemic. The congregation will wear masks for the duration of the service, the palace spokesman said. In line with the Duke's wishes, it will be a ceremonial funeral, rather than a state event, and all arrangements are set to take place within Windsor Castle without public engagement making sure to adhere to existing Covid measures. Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesBritain's Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh, poses in his military dress uniform circa 1990.Hide Caption 1 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip was born into the royal families of Greece and Denmark. His family left Greece in 1922 and settled in Paris after his uncle, King Constantine I, was overthrown.Hide Caption 2 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip, second from right, enjoys a family vacation in Mamaia, Romania, in 1928.Hide Caption 3 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip, second from left, is seen with schoolmates at the MacJannet American School outside of Paris.Hide Caption 4 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip is dressed for a production of "Macbeth" while attending school in Scotland in July 1935.Hide Caption 5 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip was the youngest of five children and the only son. After his parents' separation in 1930, he was sent to England and raised there by his maternal grandmother and uncle.Hide Caption 6 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip sits with his fiancee, Princess Elizabeth, in July 1947. He had become a naturalized British citizen and a commoner, using the surname Mountbatten, an English translation of his mother's maiden name. He was also an officer of the British Royal Navy and fought in World War II.Hide Caption 7 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip practices cricket while in the Royal Navy in 1947.Hide Caption 8 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip and Princess Elizabeth married in November 1947.Hide Caption 9 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPhilip and Elizabeth hold their children Prince Charles and Princess Anne in August 1951.Hide Caption 10 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip jumps off water skis on a beach in Marmaris, Turkey, in 1951. The photo was taken during his last posting as commander of the HMS Magpie, a Royal Navy ship.Hide Caption 11 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip and Princess Elizabeth dance in Ottawa in October 1951.Hide Caption 12 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip and Princess Elizabeth were on a tour of the commonwealth when her father, King George VI, died on February 6, 1952. She was next in line for the throne.Hide Caption 13 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip waves from the balcony of Buckingham Palace after his wife's coronation in June 1953.Hide Caption 14 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip plays polo for Cowdray Park in the semifinals of the Roehampton Cup in 1954.Hide Caption 15 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen, center, and Prince Philip, left, pose with a tiger Philip killed on a hunting trip in India in 1961. They are seen with the Maharaja and the Maharani of Jaipur.Hide Caption 16 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip sails during the Cowes Regatta in August 1962.Hide Caption 17 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip laughs as the Beatles fight over the Carl Alan Award he presented to the band in March 1964.Hide Caption 18 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen and Prince Philip, accompanied by sons Prince Andrew and Prince Edward, wave from a Buckingham Palace balcony during a parade in June 1964.Hide Caption 19 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe royal couple return to Buckingham Palace after a ceremony in June 1965.Hide Caption 20 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen and Prince Philip leave Westminster Abbey in April 1966.Hide Caption 21 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip competes in a bicycle polo match in August 1967.Hide Caption 22 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip paints during the filming of the documentary "Royal Family" in 1969.Hide Caption 23 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip and his daughter, Princess Anne, prepare a barbecue on the Balmoral Castle estate in August 1972.Hide Caption 24 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen and Prince Philip attend the Royal Windsor Horse Show in April 1976.Hide Caption 25 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen and Prince Philip pose for a photo with their children Prince Edward, Prince Charles, Princess Anne and Prince Andrew in 1979.Hide Caption 26 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Phillip fishes in a Scottish loch in 1993.Hide Caption 27 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Phillip hunts at the Sandringham estate in 1994.Hide Caption 28 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Phillip tours the London Stock Exchange in 1998.Hide Caption 29 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesFormer South African President Nelson Mandela chats with Prince Philip in November 2000.Hide Caption 30 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip rides a mini motorbike at the Royal Windsor Horse Show in May 2005.Hide Caption 31 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip competes in the Sandringham Country Show's horse driving trials in 2005.Hide Caption 32 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen and Prince Philip attend the annual Trooping the Colour ceremony in June 2011.Hide Caption 33 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip visits Sherborne Abbey during his wife's Diamond Jubilee tour in May 2012.Hide Caption 34 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen presents Prince Philip with New Zealand's highest honor, the Order of New Zealand, at Buckingham Palace in June 2013.Hide Caption 35 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe royal couple arrives at the Royal Ascot horse races in June 2014.Hide Caption 36 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip signs the guest book at Hillsborough Castle in Belfast, Northern Ireland, in June 2014.Hide Caption 37 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip smiles as he visits an Auxiliary Air Force squadron in Edinburgh, Scotland, in July 2015.Hide Caption 38 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Phillip and his grandson Prince Harry attend the Rugby World Cup final in October 2015.Hide Caption 39 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen and Prince Philip wave to guests in June 2016, during celebrations for her 90th birthday.Hide Caption 40 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip feeds a banana to an elephant in Dunstable, England, in April 2017.Hide Caption 41 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip makes his final public appearance before his retirement in August 2017, attending a parade of the Royal Marines at Buckingham Palace. The event also marked an end to Philip's 64 years as captain general, the ceremonial leader of the Royal Marines.Hide Caption 42 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThis portrait, painted by Ralph Heimans, shows Prince Philip in the Grand Corridor of Windsor Castle. It was unveiled in December 2017.Hide Caption 43 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip attends the wedding of his grandson Prince Harry and Meghan Markle in May 2018.Hide Caption 44 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip poses with the wedding party after Harry and Meghan's wedding in May 2018.Hide Caption 45 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip is seen at the wedding of his granddaughter Princess Eugenie and Jack Brooksbank in October 2018.Hide Caption 46 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip speaks with Sir David Attenborough ahead of an Order of Merit luncheon in May 2019.Hide Caption 47 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen and Prince Philip pose for a photo in June 2020, ahead of Philip's 99th birthday.Hide Caption 48 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen and Prince Philip look at a homemade anniversary card that was given to them by their great-grandchildren Prince George, Princess Charlotte and Prince Louis in November 2020.Hide Caption 49 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip, right, leaves a London hospital in March 2021. He had a heart procedure a couple of weeks earlier.Hide Caption 50 of 50In a break with tradition, members of the royal family will not be dressed in military uniform and instead don morning coats with medals or day dress, the spokesman added. The subject of clothing emerged in recent days after some British media reported Prince Andrew wished to wear an admiral's uniform. Andrew stepped back from his royal duties in 2019 over his ties to disgraced financier and convicted pedophile Jeffrey Epstein. Britain looked like it was in national mourning after Prince Philip's death. Not all of it was.The Duke of York joined the Royal Navy in 1979 as a Seaman Officer, sub-specializing as a pilot. He was promoted to the rank of vice-admiral in 2015 when he turned 55. He was due to be elevated to admiral upon his 60th birthday but that did not come to be in the wake of a disastrous interview with the BBC when he discussed his relationship with Epstein. The decision against uniforms will also solve a dilemma facing the family as Prince Harry recently lost his honorary military titles when he chose to step down as a senior royal with his wife Meghan last March. Harry was enlisted with the British Armed Forces for nearly a decade before ending his military service in 2015. He served two tours in Afghanistan and achieved the rank of captain in 2011. He has also qualified as an Apache Aircraft commander.During the service, a choir of four will sing music selected by Philip for the occasion. They will be seated in the nave, socially distanced from the assembled family members and close aides. One notable absence will be the lack of congregational singing which is currently prohibited by public health guidelines. Prince Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall view the flowers and messages of condolence left outside Buckingham Palace.Following the service, the coffin will be lowered in the Royal Vault below the chapel as the choir sings the national anthem.Here is the full list of guests who will attend the Duke of Edinburgh's funeral: 1. The Queen 2. The Prince of Wales 3. The Duchess of Cornwall 4. The Duke of Cambridge 5. The Duchess of Cambridge 6. The Duke of Sussex 7. The Duke of York 8. Princess Beatrice 9. Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi 10. Princess Eugenie 11. Jack Brooksbank 12. The Earl of Wessex 13. The Countess of Wessex 14. Lady Louise Windsor 15. Viscount Severn 16. The Princess Royal 17. Vice Admiral Sir Timothy Laurence 18. Peter Phillips 19. Zara Phillips 20. Mike Tindall 21. Earl of Snowdon 22. Lady Sarah Chatto 23. Daniel Chatto 24. Duke of Gloucester 25. Duke of Kent 26. Princess Alexandra 27. Bernhard, Hereditary Prince of Baden 28. Prince Donatus, Landgrave of Hesse 29. Prince Philipp of Hohenlohe-Langenburg 30. The Countess Mountbatten of BurmaCNN's James Frater contributed to this report.