London (CNN)The most famous family on earth is mourning the loss of its patriarch.  Prince Philip, the husband of British monarch Queen Elizabeth II, has died, Buckingham Palace has announced. He was 99.  The Duke of Edinburgh -- who married then-Princess Elizabeth in 1947 -- was the longest-serving consort in British history.  He will be remembered for his charitable work, his dedication to public service and, of course, his mischievous and controversial sense of humor.   Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesBritain's Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh, poses in his military dress uniform circa 1990.Hide Caption 1 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip was born into the royal families of Greece and Denmark. His family left Greece in 1922 and settled in Paris after his uncle, King Constantine I, was overthrown.Hide Caption 2 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesFrom left, Princess Fedora of Greece, King Michael and his mother, Princess Helene, Princess Irene of Greece, Princess Marguerite of Greece, Prince Philip and Prince Paul of Greece enjoy a vacation in Mamaia, Romania, in 1928.Hide Caption 3 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip, second from left, is seen with his schoolmates at the MacJannet American School outside of Paris, circa 1929.Hide Caption 4 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip is dressed for a production of "Macbeth" while attending school in Scotland in July 1935.Hide Caption 5 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip was the youngest of five children and the only son. After his parents' separation in 1930, he was sent to England and raised there by his maternal grandmother and uncle.Hide Caption 6 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip sits with his fiancee, Princess Elizabeth, in July 1947. He had become a naturalized British citizen and a commoner, using the surname Mountbatten, an English translation of his mother's maiden name. He was also an officer of the British Royal Navy and fought in World War II.Hide Caption 7 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip, seen here batting, during cricket practice while in the Royal Navy in 1947.Hide Caption 8 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip and Princess Elizabeth married in November 1947.Hide Caption 9 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPhilip and Elizabeth hold their children Prince Charles and Princess Anne in August 1951.Hide Caption 10 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip jumps off water skis as he reaches the beach at Marmaris in Turkey in 1951. The photo was taken during his last posting as commander of HMS Magpie.Hide Caption 11 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip and Princess Elizabeth dance in Ottawa in October 1951.Hide Caption 12 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip and Princess Elizabeth were on a tour of the commonwealth when her father, King George VI, died on February 6, 1952. She was next in line for the throne.Hide Caption 13 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip waves from the balcony of Buckingham Palace after his wife's coronation in June 1953.Hide Caption 14 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip plays polo for Cowdray Park in the semi-finals of the Roehampton Cup in 1954.Hide Caption 15 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen, center, and Prince Philip, left, pose with a tiger Philip killed on a hunting trip during an official visit to India in 1961. They are seen with the Maharaja and the Maharani of Jaipur.Hide Caption 16 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip sails during the Cowes Regatta in August 1962.Hide Caption 17 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip laughs as the Beatles fight over the Carl Alan Award he presented to the band in March 1964.Hide Caption 18 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen and Prince Philip, accompanied by sons Prince Andrew and Prince Edward, wave from a Buckingham Palace balcony during a parade in June 1964.Hide Caption 19 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe royal couple return to Buckingham Palace after a ceremony in June 1965.Hide Caption 20 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen and Prince Philip leave Westminster Abbey in April 1966.Hide Caption 21 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip competes in a bicycle polo match in August 1967.Hide Caption 22 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip paints during the filming of the documentary "Royal Family" in 1969.Hide Caption 23 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip and his daughter, Princess Anne, prepare a barbecue on the Balmoral Castle estate in August 1972.Hide Caption 24 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen and Prince Philip attend the Royal Windsor Horse Show in April 1976.Hide Caption 25 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen and Prince Philip pose for a photo in 1979 with their children Prince Edward, Prince Charles, Princess Anne and Prince Andrew.Hide Caption 26 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Phillip fishes in a Scottish loch in 1993.Hide Caption 27 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Phillip hunts at the Sandringham estate in 1994.Hide Caption 28 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Phillip tours the London Stock Exchange in 1998.Hide Caption 29 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesFormer South African President Nelson Mandela chats with Prince Philip in November 2000.Hide Caption 30 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip rides a mini motorbike at the Royal Windsor Horse Show in May 2005.Hide Caption 31 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip competes in the Sandringham Country Show's horse driving trials, held on the Norfolk Estate in 2005.Hide Caption 32 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen and Prince Philip attend the annual Trooping the Colour ceremony in June 2011.Hide Caption 33 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip visits Sherborne Abbey during his wife's Diamond Jubilee tour in May 2012.Hide Caption 34 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen presents Prince Philip with New Zealand's highest honor, the Order of New Zealand, at Buckingham Palace in June 2013.Hide Caption 35 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe royal couple arrives at the Royal Ascot horse races in June 2014.Hide Caption 36 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip signs the guest book at Hillsborough Castle in Belfast, Northern Ireland, in June 2014.Hide Caption 37 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip smiles as he visits an Auxiliary Air Force squadron in Edinburgh, Scotland, in July 2015.Hide Caption 38 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Phillip and his grandson Prince Harry attend the Rugby World Cup final in October 2015.Hide Caption 39 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen and Prince Philip wave to guests in June 2016, during celebrations for her 90th birthday.Hide Caption 40 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip feeds a banana to an elephant in Dunstable, England, in April 2017.Hide Caption 41 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip makes his final public appearance before his retirement in August 2017, attending a parade of the Royal Marines at Buckingham Palace. The event also marked an end to Philip's 64 years as captain general, the ceremonial leader of the Royal Marines.Hide Caption 42 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThis portrait, painted by Ralph Heimans, shows Prince Philip in the Grand Corridor of Windsor Castle. It was unveiled in December 2017.Hide Caption 43 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip attends the wedding of his grandson Prince Harry and Meghan Markle in May 2018.Hide Caption 44 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip poses with the wedding party after Harry and Meghan's wedding in May 2018.Hide Caption 45 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip is seen at the wedding of his granddaughter Princess Eugenie and Jack Brooksbank in October 2018.Hide Caption 46 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip speaks with Sir David Attenborough ahead of an Order of Merit luncheon in May 2019.Hide Caption 47 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen and Prince Philip pose for a photo in June 2020, ahead of Philip's 99th birthday.Hide Caption 48 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesThe Queen and Prince Philip look at a homemade anniversary card that was given to them by their great-grandchildren Prince George, Princess Charlotte and Prince Louis in November 2020.Hide Caption 49 of 50 Photos: Prince Philip's life in picturesPrince Philip, right, leaves a London hospital in March 2021. He had a heart procedure a couple of weeks earlier.Hide Caption 50 of 50Phillip once jokingly referred to himself as "the world's most experienced plaque unveiler." But as a child born into the turmoil of interwar Europe and a naval officer decorated for heroism during World War II, the Duke of Edinburgh was an extraordinary figure in his own right.  Read MoreChildhood and exile  Philip's life was dramatic from the outset. The nephew of Greece's King Constantine I, the Prince of Greece and Denmark was born in 1921 on the dining room table of a villa on the Greek island of Corfu.   He was forced into exile just 18 months later, when the Greek monarchy was overthrown by a military revolt. His family's experience shaped Philip's later desire to modernize the British Royalty, in the hope they would seem more relevant to the Queen's subjects.  He was taken on board HMS Calypso, the British cruiser given the secret mission to take his family to safety, sleeping in a crib made out of an old fruit box.   Stateless and -- by royal standards -- poor, Philip's family spent the next few years traveling between the homes of European relatives, as the continent descended into the political and economic upheaval that ultimately led to World War II.  This photo from September 1928 was taken during a family vacation in Mamaia, Romania. It features, from left, Princess Fedora of Greece, King Michael and his mother Princess Helene, Princess Irene, Princess Marguerite, Prince Philip and Prince Paul.His mother, Alice, was committed to a psychiatric clinic in 1930. This meant Philip rarely saw his parents growing up. He was instead mentored by an uncle, Lord Louis Mountbatten, and dispatched to a series of boarding schools in England, Germany and Scotland.  In 1935, Greece voted to reinstate its monarchy, but Philip's father Andrew resisted pressure to push his son into the Greek military service. Instead, Philip remained at Gordonstoun, the school in Scotland where he would later send his own sons, including Prince Charles. It was here he began preparing for training to join the British Royal Navy.  Tragedy struck in 1937, when Philip's sister, Cecile, died in an airplane crash while going into labor. Her husband and prematurely born child both lost their lives too.  The war years -- and a princess  He joined the Navy in 1939, the same year he met Elizabeth when she visited the Royal Navy College in Dartmouth with her father, King George VI. The trip had been arranged by Mountbatten.  One of his cousins, Lady Kennard, described the teenage Prince as "like a sort of young Viking, very blond and strong and very handsome. Oh, I think he was everybody's heartthrob."  As a citizen of Greece, Philip was initially deployed as a "neutral foreigner" serving on naval escort and convoy missions. But after Italy invaded Greece in 1940, he was assigned to Valiant, a battleship that would soon see action in the Mediterranean.   Philip inspects soldiers of the naval school in Corsham, England, circa 1946.Philip was commended for his operation of searchlights during night battle in 1941 near Cape Matapan, where the British destroyed much of the Italian fleet. He was later awarded the Greek War Cross of Valor.  After numerous postings and promotions, Philip was in 1944 appointed first lieutenant of HMS Whelp, a destroyer that would be deployed in the Pacific as part of a British fleet in joint operations with the US Navy, including the landings at Iwo Jima during the Pacific conflict. When peace came, Philip remained in the navy, but rekindled a friendship with Elizabeth that blossomed into a public romance.  Marriage into the British royal family  In 1947, Philip became a naturalized British subject, renounced his royal titles and changed his name from Philip Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glucksburg. He took the surname of his uncle and godfather, becoming Philip Mountbatten.  The couple married in Westminster Abbey in 1947. Shortly afterward, Philip returned to naval duty, rising to the rank of lieutenant commander.  RELATED ARTICLE: Prince Philip and the Queen's royal romancePrincess Elizabeth and Prince Philip wave to the crowd from a balcony of Buckingham Palace shortly after their wedding at London's Westminster Abbey in 1947.Newly appointed as the Duke of Edinburgh, Philip had to abandon his naval career for royal duties after the then King, George VI, fell ill. The King died on February 6, 1952, while Philip and Elizabeth were on an official trip to Kenya. It was Philip who broke the news to his wife -- now the Queen.  The royal couple had two children before Elizabeth acceded to the throne -- Prince Charles in 1948 and Princess Anne in 1950 -- and two after, Prince Andrew and Prince Edward. They have eight grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.  During the early years of the couple's marriage, the Prince enjoyed the height of his popularity. On their first major tour together -- to Canada and the US in 1951 -- huge crowds turned out to see the couple. Princess Elizabeth and the Duke of Edinburgh greet a crowd during their tour of Hamilton, Canada in 1951. Their relationship was discussed in an ITV documentary about Prince Philip and the 60th anniversary of his charity, Duke of Edinburgh award, in 2016.  Sophie Wessex, wife of the couple's youngest son, Prince Edward, revealed how the pair still enjoyed each other's company after more than six decades of marriage.  "He has been a fantastic life partner for her. I think it's maybe a fairly lonely job being Queen," she said. "As a female in the top job, I think to have somebody you can lean on, you can discuss things with, she can be honest with behind closed doors ... I don't think she could have chosen better. And they make each other laugh, which is half the battle, isn't it?"  Horses, polo and gaffes The Duke himself spoke of his own struggles to find a purpose within the royal family, saying he took on patronages out of duty rather than passion.  "I didn't want to be president of the World Wildlife Fund," he said in an interview in 1992. "I was asked to do it. I'd much rather have stayed in the navy, frankly."  But it is for his charitable work that many will remember him. As of 2016, more than 2.4 million people had achieved a Duke of Edinburgh Award in the United Kingdom alone. The program operates in more than 140 countries and territories in total.  The Queen's husband, Prince Philip, diesHe was also a patron or member of 785 national organizations, many of them charities.  As of May 2017, Buckingham Palace said Philip had carried out 22,191 solo engagements since becoming Prince Consort in 1952. He made 637 solo overseas visits, more than a third of them to Commonwealth countries. He also gave 5,493 speeches and authored 14 books.  Yet he found time to pursue his own interests: over the years these have included polo, barbecues, competitive horse carriage driving (a sport in which he has represented Britain) and practical jokes. He even trained to be a pilot, being awarded his "wings" in 1953. Philip's passion for flying led to speculation that he might fly the Queen to her Scotland residence, Balmoral, for a holiday before her coronation on June 2.  Prince Philip plays polo in 1970.Philip had no constitutional roles other than being a privy counselor, but the Queen in 1952 declared that he had "place, pre-eminence and precedence" next to herself "on all occasions and in all meetings, except where otherwise provided by act of Parliament."  Over the years Philip also cultivated a reputation for numerous racist comments and gaffes, which helped shape some of his public persona.  In 1986, Philip made a number of remarks that offended many Chinese people.  Notoriously, on an official visit to China, he told a group of British exchange students: "If you stay here much longer you'll all be slitty-eyed." His verdict on the Chinese capital? "Ghastly."  The same year, he told a World Wildlife Fund meeting that "if it has got four legs and it is not a chair, if it has got two wings and flies but is not an aeroplane and if it swims and it is not a submarine, the Cantonese will eat it."  In 1998, he asked a British student who had been trekking in Papua New Guinea: "You managed not to get eaten then?"  Unseen footage of Queen Elizabeth revealedAnd four years later, while touring Australia with the Queen, he reportedly asked a group of Aborigines: "Do you still throw spears at each other?"  Harry Mount, who had been on the receiving end of Philip's wit, wrote for CNN after the news that he'd be stepping down from public life, the "gaffes" were a way of making people feel at ease in the presence of royalty. "The 'gaffes', I suddenly saw, were brilliant devices to make you feel at ease in his company. He was behaving like the sort of old friend who shows how much he likes you by teasing you."  Others believe that dismissing these comments as gaffes and not calling them out as racism does a disservice to modern Britain."He was a throwback to old school racism. Painting him as a benign, cuddly uncle of the nation is simply untrue," says Kehinde Andrews, professor of Black Studies at Birmingham City University."When he says things about Chinese people's eyes and chucking spears, it's very ugly and would not be tolerated anywhere else nor from anyone else."His retirement had been a long time coming. During an interview with the BBC for his 90th birthday in 2011, Philip said it was time to take a step back from his responsibilities.  "I reckon I've done my bit, I want to enjoy myself now ... have less responsibility, less frantic rushing about, less preparation, less trying to think of something to say," he said.Prince Philip raises his hat in his role as Captain General Royal Marines, as he attends a parade on the Buckingham Palace forecourt in August 2017.However, Philip continued to appear by the Queen's side. In 2012, he was with Elizabeth as she undertook a busy schedule of public engagements across the UK to mark her 60 years on the throne. In a diamond jubilee address to Parliament in March 2012, the Queen said the support of her own family had been "beyond measure" throughout her reign. In a special tribute to her husband, she said: "Prince Philip is, I believe, well known for declining compliments of any kind. But throughout he has been a constant strength and guide." Philip finally retired from public life in the fall of 2017 but continued to make some public appearances. He attended the wedding of his grandson Prince Harry and Meghan Markle in May 2018, followed by the wedding of granddaughter Princess Eugenie to Jack Brooksbank in October that year. Philip also attended the small, private wedding of granddaughter Princess Beatrice to Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi in July 2020. That same month, he took part in a ceremony to hand over his role as Colonel-in-Chief of The Rifles to the Duchess of Cornwall, in what was his last public appearance. The announcement in 2017 that he was stepping back from public life brought glowing tributes in the British press to Philip's long decades of service to the United Kingdom and the Commonwealth, both by the Queen's side and in more than 22,000 solo engagements.  Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip watch a Diamond Jubilee Pageant during a visit to RAF Cosford in Wolverhampton, England, as part of the Queen's Jubilee Tour of the UK, in July 2012.Those who have known Philip away from the public eye, such as actress Dame Judi Dench, described him as "an indomitable person."  Joanna Lumley, the British actress, who knew Philip for years, labeled him an "extraordinary character."  "He rides, sails, drives horses, fishes and swims and does stuff," Lumley told ITV. "He really could have been James Bond, actually." This story has been updated.