 (CNN)US gymnast Simone Biles has revealed that her aunt "unexpectedly" died during the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.Following her bronze medal win on the balance beam on Tuesday, Biles -- arguably the greatest gymnast of all time -- told the media about the loss her family suffered while she was in Japan."Two days ago my aunt unexpectedly passed, and that was something I wasn't expecting to happen at the Olympic Games either, so at the end of the day, you have to be a little bit more mindful of what you say online, because you have no idea of what these athletes are going through as well as (in) their sports," Biles said.Biles looks on during warm-ups prior to the women's balance beam final.Biles didn't compete in four individual finals at the Tokyo Olympics -- the all-around individual competition, vault, uneven bars and floor exercise -- after withdrawing during the women's team final, citing mental health concerns.She did return for the balance beam final, in which she claimed her second bronze medal in the discipline after her bronze at the 2016 Rio Games.Read More"Every day I had to be medically evaluated by the doctors, and then I had two sessions with a sports psychologist which kind of helped keep me more level-headed," said Biles, regarding preparations for the beam final."I was cleared to do beam, which I honestly didn't think I'd be cleared to do last night."Meanwhile in an Instagram post, the 24-year-old Biles said she is "leaving Tokyo with a full heart." "Not at all how I imagined or dreamed my second Olympics would go but blessed to represent the USA," wrote Biles. "I'll forever cherish this unique Olympic experience. thanks everyone for the endless love and support. I'm truly grateful."Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, features, and videos Photos: Simone Biles bounces backUS gymnast Simone Biles competes in the balance beam final on Tuesday, August 3. She won the bronze in her much-anticipated return to competition.Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces backBiles scored an even 14.000 points in Tuesday's competition, with a 6.1 in difficulty and 7.9 in execution. Gold medalist Guan Chenchen finished at 14.633, and silver medalist Tang Xijing had a score of 14.233.Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces backFrom left, Tang, Guan and Biles pose with their medals.Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces backBiles performs her beam routine on Tuesday. She also won bronze in this event at the 2016 Olympics.Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces backThis was Biles' first competition since she withdrew from the team all-around last week.Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces backBiles was the third of eight gymnasts to compete on the beam Tuesday.Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces backThe International Gymnastics Federation said Biles' set consisted of the following: "3/1 wolf turn. Front aerial, jumps. Back handspring to two layout stepouts. Switch to switch 1/2, pause, back pike. Side aerial. And two back handsprings to terrific double pike dismount!"Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces backBefore starting her routine, Biles took some deep breathes as the crowd began to get excited.Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces backBiles begins her routine on Tuesday.Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces backBiles had pulled out of several events over the past week, citing mental health concerns. "Physically and mentally it was not safe for me to do (other events) because I could not do the skills without jeopardizing my health and safety," Biles said after her balance beam bronze. She said "the only reason why I could do beam was because there was no twisting. So, thank God for that."Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces backBiles prepares to start her routine.Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces backBiles reacts after her routine. When she was done, she received a standing ovation.Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces backBiles is hugged by teammate Suni Lee, who was also competing in the event. Lee won the individual all-around last week.Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces backBiles claps after finishing her routine Tuesday.Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces backCoach Cecile Canqueteau-Landi congratulates Biles as it becomes evident she will earn a medal.Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces backBiles watches Tang and Guan embrace after the event.Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces backBiles poses with her bronze medal Tuesday. "It definitely feels more special, this bronze, than the balance beam bronze at Rio," she said. "I will cherish it for a long time." Biles now has seven Olympic medals, tying her with Shannon Miller for the most by an American gymnast.Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces backBiles sits next to coach Cecile Canqueteau-Landi during the warm-up Tuesday.Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces backBiles waves to the crowd prior to the event. Biles and Lee got the loudest cheer as the athletes were introduced to the crowd.Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Simone Biles bounces back"It's been a very long week, a very long five years," Biles said. "I didn't expect to medal today. I just wanted to go out and do it for me, and that's what I did."Hide Caption 20 of 20Her silver medal in the team event and bronze in the balance beam means Biles has now won seven Olympic medals in her career.She also added: "Leaving Tokyo with 2 more Olympic medals to add to my collection isn't too shabby!"