 (CNN)Steph Curry clinched the second NBA scoring title of his career after tallying a game-high 46 points in the Golden State Warriors' 113-101 win over the Memphis Grizzlies on Sunday. Curry, who last won the title back in 2016, ended the regular season with a 32.0-point scoring average, edging out the Washington Wizards' Bradley Beal who finished on 31.3. At 33, Curry is the oldest scoring champion since Michael Jordan, who achieved it at age 35 during the 1997-98 season. "I had a lot of good looks all night," said Curry, per the BBC. "We were in sync. The guys set great screens for me."Curry's heroics helped his team claim the No. 8 position in this week's play-in tournament, setting up a mouthwatering encounter with LeBron James' LA Lakers on Wednesday.Read MoreREAD: Michael Jordan to present Kobe Bryant at Hall of Fame inductionStephen Curry celebrates during the game against the Memphis Grizzlies on Sunday. Speaking ahead of the game, James praised Curry for his recent performances and explained why he thought his side was playing against this season's MVP. "Our paths have been crossed again. There's always been a level of respect that's even beyond the game of basketball," James said. "We get caught up in the records sometimes [...] instead of saying who had the best season that year. Steph has had, in my opinion, the best season all year."Earlier this year, Curry became the Warriors' all-time leading scorer, surpassing Wilt Chamberlain's record that had stood for 57 years.He has twice been named MVP in 2015 and 2016. Curry couldn't contain his excitement during Sunday's game. Jazz hitting all the right notes Elsewhere, the Utah Jazz beat the Sacramento Kings 121-99 on Sunday to finish the season with the best record in the NBA at 50-22.It's the first time in franchise history that the Jazz has finished the regular season with the best record, and head coach Quin Snyder says he's proud of the achievement."As much as the accomplishment for me, you appreciate this group of men," Snyder said after the game on Sunday."You appreciate the opportunity to coach them. You appreciate what they've accomplished in the regular season. "I want them all to enjoy this moment because I feel like if we do that, that transitions us to the mindset we need to have to try to play well in the playoffs, to compete and execute. That's what these guys have done all year." 