 (CNN)The first stage of the culmination of the PGA Tour season could be delayed for the second day in a row due to the ongoing effects of Tropical Storm Henri. Henri tore through the Northeast of the US over the weekend, leaving thousands without power and causing flooding. The inclement weather impacted the Northern Trust tournament held at the Liberty National Golf Club, Jersey City, New Jersey. Golfer Cameron Smith on the 18th green during the third round of the Northern Trust.The final round of the opening FedExCup playoff event -- the climax to the PGA Tour season -- was postponed from Sunday to Monday due to the heavy rain forecast. According to the tournament website, the golf course received over six inches of rain from Saturday evening through Sunday afternoon. Read MoreAccording to a statement from the PGA Tour, accommodations have been made to allow the full 72 holes to be played at the Northern Trust to have a winner. "The Commissioner has decided to modify the Bad Weather Guidelines as outlined in the PGA TOUR Tournament Regulations. The Commissioner has the authority to modify a Regulation if he deems it in the interest of the game of golf, the host organizations, the public or the players," the PGA Tour said."As such, for the Northern Trust, BMW Championship and Tour Championship, play will be allowed to extend beyond Monday as is deemed necessary in order to complete 72 holes of competition, without regard to how much play is completed on Monday. This modification is consistent with the Tournament Regulation already in effect for The Players Championship."The Northern Trust is the first of three FedExCup Playoff events. The BMW Championship is due to start on Thursday, August 26 with the season finale, the Tour Championship, scheduled to start on Thursday, September 2. The weather has meant fans won't be able to attend the final day's play. "With more rain forecasted throughout the day on Monday, including a possible afternoon thunderstorm, officials determined that contesting the final round without spectators onsite would be the safest path moving forward," the PGA Tour said. Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, features, and videosJames Hahn hits from the 15th fairway during the Northern Trust.The PGA Tour says its plan is to compete the tournament on Monday though. Australia's Cameron Smith and Spain's Jon Rahm sit atop the standings with just 18 holes remaining. Smith shot a course-record 11-under-par 60 on Saturday to shoot up the rankings. 