Story highlightsJadon and Anias McDonald, once joined at the head, return homeThe twin boys underwent extensive therapy over the past nine monthsValhalla, New York (CNN)Nicole and Christian McDonald entered their boys' hospital room for a final time. In a corner room of Blythedale Children's Hospital in Valhalla, New York, Jadon and Anias had recovered for the past nine months of extensive rehabilitation after the surgery to separate the formerly conjoined twins. The two boys captivated millions around the world when they underwent a 27-hour separation surgery in October. The twins, who were 13 months old at the time, had shared 5 centimeters by 7 centimeters of brain tissue, making the complicated surgery that much more difficult.Jadon and Anias had known the world only from lying on their backs, and the surgery set them back to infancy in terms of speech and gross motor skills. In recovery, they learned how to use muscles they never knew they had. Just sitting up was a monumental task. Doctors feared that Anias might never be able to use his right side. Yet in rehab, he's begun using his right hand almost as much as his left. Read MoreTheir final day at Blythedale is one Nicole and Christian had dreamed of since before the surgery. The family transported their lives from small-town Illinois to New York in February 2016 to prepare for the procedure. The boys had been in the hospital almost constantly since then, first at the Children's Hospital at Montefiore Medical Center, where the surgery took place, and then Blythedale. They turn 2 years old on Saturday.Gone are the fears of the surgery itself. The hour-long trips to the hospital. The longing to have their family under one roof. Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartAnias, left, and Jadon McDonald were born conjoined at the head, something only seen in 1 out of every 2.5 million live births. They were separated in a 27-hour surgery at the Children's Hospital at Montefiore Medical Center in New York in October.Hide Caption 1 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartNicole and Christian McDonald talk with Dr. Sanjay Gupta in the family waiting area on October 13 as a team worked to separate Jadon and Anias. "When we sent them off this morning, to me, I felt at peace with it and just ready to handle what comes after," Nicole said.Hide Caption 2 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartDr. James Goodrich Goodrich, left, leads a surgical team as they prepared to separate the twins. "Failure is not an option," Goodrich told the team as they got started.Hide Caption 3 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartHide Caption 4 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartThe twins' surgery was Goodrich's longest craniopagus surgery. It's meticulous, tricky and complex: A single cut too deep can lead to catastrophic bleeding. Hide Caption 5 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartGoodrich's team worked more than 16 hours just to separate the boys, and each continued surgery individually afterward. Hide Caption 6 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartNewly separated twins Anias, left, and Jadon in surgery at the hospital. Goodrich informed the family of the successful separation at about 3 a.m. October 14. "Well, we did it," he told them. When it was official, the room burst into spontaneous applause.Hide Caption 7 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartJadon recovers in the  pediatric intensive care unit  shortly after the surgery.Hide Caption 8 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartAnias returns to his room after his head dressing was changed.Hide Caption 9 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartJadon stretches his arms in his room within the hospital's pediatric intensive care unit. Anias rests in a nearby bed in the same room.Hide Caption 10 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartAnias, left, stares at Jadon for the first time since the surgery that separated them.Hide Caption 11 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartNicole McDonald, right, and her mother, Chris Grosso, with Anias in mid-November. Anias had to have his skull cap removed due to infection, but doctors say they are still pleased with his recovery. Hide Caption 12 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartAnias, left, and Jadon lie in a red wagon at the Children's Hospital at Montefiore Medical Center on December 13 as they prepare for the next stage of their journey, two months after their surgery.Hide Caption 13 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartThe family was headed to the hospital's banquet hall on December 13, where surgical and pediatric intensive care staff members were gathered for a farewell party.Hide Caption 14 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartDr. Oren Tepper, the twins' lead plastic surgeon, holds a thank you gift from the McDonald family presented to him at the farewell party.Hide Caption 15 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartNicole McDonald holds Anias as his twin brother, Jadon, sleeps in the bed to the left. The twins' older brother, Aza, watches television at the hospital from one of the boys' beds shortly before they left for rehab.Hide Caption 16 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartJadon, left, and Anias McDonald look up at hospital staff as they leave their room at Montefiore Children's Hospital in New York. Their older brother, Aza, proudly sits at the front of the wagon. It was mid-December and they were headed to rehab.Hide Caption 17 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartNicole McDonald pushes a stroller with Anias as her husband Christian pushes Jadon down a hallway on June 14 at Blythedale Children's Hospital in Valhalla, New York, where the boys have been rehabilitating.Hide Caption 18 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartAnias plays with a toy while laying on a mat in his room at Blythedale Children's Hospital.Hide Caption 19 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartJadon eats small snacks and drinks from a sippy cup on his own, major progress since he first moved to rehab.Hide Caption 20 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartNicole McDonald plays with her son Anias as Christian McDonald holds Jadon on a playground outside Blythedale Children's Hospital. Hide Caption 21 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartNicole McDonald holds Jadon while looking over discharge information on September 1, as they prepare to leave the rehab facility and head home as a family for the first time.Hide Caption 22 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartNicole McDonald takes Anias into the family's new house for the first time with his older brother, Aza.Hide Caption 23 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apartChristian McDonald holds his son Anias as Nicole McDonald checks on Jadon at home with the family dogs, Taz and Tyson.Hide Caption 24 of 24Nicole lifted Anias from his hospital crib. "Are you ready to go?" she asked, cradling him close to her heart. Across the room, Christian picked up Jadon and told him that he'll soon "get to hang out at home.""You get to ride in a minivan," he said. "You get to be a normal little boy."The boys were placed in a double umbrella stroller. Jadon sported a white helmet with a red Velcro strap; Anias wore a helmet with a blue stripe.Dad pushed their stroller down the hall. Mom and their 4-year-old brother, Aza, accompanied them. It was time to go home. Finally.'God works through people' The McDonald home teems with activity. Nicole and Christian purchased the home in foreclosure in the spring. Nestled in New York's Orange County, with views of the Catskill Mountains, it was in need of extensive renovation.Christian worked almost around the clock to get it ready for his boys, ripping off siding and tearing up old carpet. A few weeks ago, four guys from Texas who are affiliated with their church showed up to help. In just 2½ days, they built front stairs, installed siding, replaced windows, refurbished the laundry room and renovated a bathroom. Most important, they ran an electrical circuit to the boys' room to handle all of their specialized medical equipment. Anias will need a feeding tube, as well as a breathing machine and a suction machine to aid in his care. The family will eventually have home nurses for 16 hours a day.Saving the twins: Health scares and rehab for once-conjoined boysLess than 24 hours before the boys' return, the split-level ranch home seemed more like the site of a renovation reality show, with Christian burning the midnight oil to complete the work. Aided by his minister and two church members, he pulled up carpet in the basement playroom and laid tiles. On the wall, a quote from American philosopher and psychologist William James: "The greatest discovery of my generation is that a human being can alter his life by altering his attitude." Upstairs, Nicole prepared a chili feast. She traveled back and forth between the hospital and home so much, it's rare to be able to cook dinner. She had to fight back to tears while slicing onions. The tears, she said with a laugh, are "not from the onions." They're for the overwhelming excitement at the idea of bringing Jadon and Anias home. Earlier, she'd walked through their room. Their newly assembled cribs waited to be occupied. "My kids have never been home separate," she said. "I'm so excited, I can hardly stand it. It feels like it's not even real. We've never been home and each held a kid. It's going to be awesome."Christian joined her in the kitchen to reflect on the monumental journey the family has been on for the past year. He said the boys have been in hospitals for so long -- nearly 1½ years, counting the months before the surgery -- that feels like, in a weird way, Jadon and Anias have been wards of the hospital and less his own children. "It's almost like I get to be a dad to them for the first time," he said. That's not to say he's not appreciative of everything the hospitals have done, from the surgeons at Montefiore who operated on them to the staff at Blythedale who worked tirelessly to get Jadon and Anias to this point. "I'm feeling pretty excited getting to hold my kids sitting on my couch and actually just hold one at a time," he said. "It's like I have my sons now, you know?"Christian and Nicole McDonald load their twins, Jadon and Anias, into the family van as they head home from rehab for the first time.The last time the boys were home, Jadon and Anias were still connected at the head. Any time their parents needed to move them, they had to carry them together in a carefully choreographed way. The family lived in a rental home in the Bronx. Now, they have their own home. They want to push the boys in strollers to the park. They want to take them to the local pizza joint. Simply put, they just want to be a family."I can't wait to show them the world," Nicole said.More than anything else, Christian said, "I'm just so excited for them. I'm sure they just want to come home and be with their family, and we want them to come home."Both parents express gratitude for everyone who has reached out to them and prayed for their boys. Devout Christians, the parents say their faith has sustained them during this arduous journey. "Times like this really shows us that it is God's help," Christian said. "God works through people."Added Nicole, "This strengthened my faith. If I didn't have God in my life, I would not have made it."A member of their church donated their minivan. Strangers generously gave more than $340,000 to the family's GoFundMe  account -- money that has supported the family the past year, aided in the purchase of their home and helped pay off huge medical bills. The journey has in no way been easy. The months since the surgery have seen both boys stave off seizures and serious infections that resulted in trips to the intensive care unit. But the parents say they are prepared to handle whatever comes next. "We had miracle upon miracle upon miracle happen with these children to get them to where they are now," Nicole said. "We have our children coming home." 'Motivated' boys ready to tackle the worldThe boys' road to recovery was made possible thanks to the dedicated staff at Blythedale Children's Hospital. In additional to physical therapy, they received speech and occupational therapy five days a week. The boys will still return for three days of therapy a week for the foreseeable future.JUST WATCHEDA 360° look inside the operating room during the boys' surgeryReplayMore Videos ...MUST WATCHA 360° look inside the operating room during the boys' surgery 06:16Mara Abrams has worked with Jadon as his physical therapist and says his tenacity has been awe-inspiring. He loves books, he loves toys, and he loves life. She said he's learning to pull himself up on furniture and walking sideways along the furniture with a bit of help. He's nearly crawling, too. "The first step in a wonderful life is about to happen," Abrams said. "It's just so great that the hospitalization is over."Jadon's progression is nothing short of amazing, she said. It was difficult and intimidating when he first arrived because he'd only known life from lying on his back. "All of a sudden, the whole world changed for him," she said. "I know it took so much time for him to visually accept that the world wasn't meant for him to lie down, that he had to come into a vertical position and figure out this is what the world looks like."A collection of family photos hangs in the dining room of the McDonalds' home.But with help, Jadon took off. "Every day, he's always been a cheerful, happy guy. He throws his arms out; he squeals with delight. He loves going to therapy. I'm just so happy they're going to have real-life experiences."Her favorite moments are many, like the time he took a few steps toward his occupational therapist and grinned from ear to ear. Or the time he was on a tricycle working on reciprocal leg motion, and he suddenly saw his mom. "We started to go towards her. She squealed with delight, and he did. It was really wonderful."Anias has struggled the most, both before and after the surgery. With twins joined at the head, one tends to be more dominant. In this case, Jadon was the dominant one, whose body worked overtime to keep both of them alive. Anias has struggled with breathing and other issues, compared with his brother.  Anias's body also rejected the skull cap that had been placed under his skin to protect his brain, and it had to be surgically removed. He will probably undergo another surgery for a new skull cap when he is 7 years old. Until then, he will wear a protective helmet.But Anias' gains have been tremendous too, according to his physical therapist, Maureen Carroll. Although he is a few months behind Jadon's progression, he has made giant leaps. When Anias first came to physical therapy, Carroll said, he was scared of people and using only his left side. Now, he's kicking both feet and routinely using his right hand to stick his foot in his mouth. He's become social with his twin and older brother. New life, apart: Rare surgery to separate brothers conjoined at headAnias, who eats via a feeding tube, is 4 pounds heavier than Jadon now, weighing in at 28 pounds."He wants to play. He wants to move -- and that's amazing," Carroll said. "The child who was afraid of people at first now wants to interact with the world. He's motivated, and that's huge."What excites her the most about Anias, she said, is that "he's excited to be here, and he's excited to move.""That's what makes my job so easy," she said. "I'm just going along for the ride. He's the one who is the hero and the miracle."Making the family whole The silver minivan pulled up to their home early Friday evening. Mom and Dad got out and prepared for the big moment. On the hourlong ride home, Jadon played with a ball while big brother Aza jabbered for much of the time. Both boys laughed and laughed. Anias was oblivious, asleep in his seat.The family dogs, Taz and Tyson, greeted the minivan to inspect the new arrivals. Taz, a tiny Maltese/toy poodle mix, leaped into the back of the minivan and sniffed around. His tail wagged at the sight of the two boys. Nicole gingerly carried Anias up the front stairs. Christian fetched Jadon and, on their way up the steps, pointed out his renovation handiwork to his son: new siding, stairs and windows. "I put you in a new window, Jadon, so you can have a clear view," he said. "This is it. This is your home."Nicole McDonald comforts her crying son, Jadon, who was frightened by the family dog.Soon, the home buzzed with the hectic life of raising three boys under the age of 5. Aza ran about. Taz began barking. The environment was completely new to the twins. Jadon trembled and cried every time Taz barked. The night before, the parents had talked of how they longed to sit with the boys on the couch. Join the conversationSee the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.With Jadon screaming, Nicole took a seat on the living room couch and held him. "This is your home," she whispered. "Don't be scared."His tears abated.  A few hours later, Anias fell asleep first. Jadon soon followed. Both boys were asleep in their home.As much as Nicole and Christian dreamed of the moment, they said, it was even better than they imagined.Their family was whole again.