 (CNN)Angela Merkel has been written off many times in her career -- by the politician's rivals, her own party members and, yes, the press.   It's difficult to imagine today, as Germany's widely respected Chancellor prepares to step down after more than 15 years in the top job, but in the early stages of her career Merkel was regularly belittled and looked down on -- even by those who were supposedly on her side.  The protégé of then-Chancellor Helmut Kohl, Merkel was known by him as "mein Maedel" -- "my girl."  "She always was underestimated by her enemies and by other politicians, and when they realized that a woman from the east is able to play this power game, it was too late," Ralph Bollmann, author of the authoritative Merkel biography "Angela Merkel: The Chancellor and Her Time," told CNN.The media only added to this sense that Merkel was not a serious political contender.  Read MoreAt one of her earliest media appearances as the new leader of the center-right Christian Democratic Union (CDU) in Berlin in 2001, Merkel appeared out of her depth.  Uneasy in front of the bright lights and cameras of the press pack, she seemed not to know where to look or what to do with her hands, and gave flat, boring answers to reporters' questions. Chatting afterwards, many of the (mostly male) journalists present agreed: This woman would never be chancellor.   Germany's election will decide what life after Merkel looks like. Here's what you need to knowBut what did they know? Merkel went on to secure four terms in office, making her one of the longest-serving chancellors in German history -- only Kohl, the mentor she eventually turned her back on, has served longer in the modern era.   Two decades on, she has cemented her position as an elder stateswoman, having led her nation -- indeed some would argue Europe as a whole -- through a series of potentially devastating crises.Named the most powerful woman in the world several times over, Merkel also played a crucial role on the international stage, helping to manage the global financial crisis, the refugee crisis, and the war in Ukraine.  As Germany prepares to go to the polls this weekend to elect a new government, and by extension her successor, it is not clear whether any of those lining up to replace her -- Armin Laschet of Merkel's own CDU, the center-left Socialist Party (SPD)'s Olaf Scholz, or the Greens' Annalena Baerbock -- will be able to fill her shoes.  Bollmann says the world will sorely miss Merkel's steady leadership: "I think there is one common thing in Germany and abroad: She is seen as a guarantor of stability. In future times many people will look back at this time as a time -- perhaps the last time -- of stability."   Angela Merkel was sworn in as Germany's first female chancellor in November 2005.  'Don't fool yourself' Merkel, 67, grew up under Communism in East Germany, and trained as a scientist, earning a doctorate in quantum chemistry before making a move into politics following the fall of the Berlin Wall. She won a seat in the Bundestag, Germany's parliament, in the first election after reunification.   In the years that followed, Merkel would not only become the first female Chancellor of Germany but would also change the country's politics for good.  Yet when the CDU won Germany's elections in 2005 -- by just 1% -- it was widely seen as having happened despite Merkel's perceived weaknesses, not because of her.   Appearing on TV talk show "The Elephant Round," after the nail-bitingly close 2005 vote, the incumbent Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder appeared dismissive of Merkel, laughing off the notion that she would be able to form a governing coalition.   "She will not manage to form a coalition with my Social Democratic Party," he said. "Don't fool yourself."Merkel held her tongue, but went on to do just that, patiently biding her time before working to form a so-called "grand coalition" between the two largest parties -- the CDU and the SPD -- and, in doing so, ending Schroeder's political career. The imperturbable, unemotional Merkel had triumphed.  Merkel greets visitors as she walks to the Chapel of Reconciliation before attending a memorial service to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, on November 9, 2019. "There are many things she learnt from her youth ... in the GDR, in Communism, because she had to hide her real opinions, not saying something ... she's a very quiet person, she's patient," Merkel biographer Bollmann told CNN.     The early years of Merkel's chancellorship were largely uneventful. Germany's economy slowly gained steam after years of stagnation. But in 2008, when investment banking company Lehman Brothers collapsed and the world seemed headed for an economic abyss, Germans feared their export-dependent nation could go under.   That's when Merkel took charge, becoming the country's crisis manager.   On October 5, 2008, she told Germans: "Your savings are secure, the federal government guarantees that." Her calm, reassuring words helped to prevent a run on the banks and marked the start of a period of confidence in the face of adversity for Germany, led by Merkel.  Her government started a short-term labor program, known as "Kurzarbeit," which helped companies keep their employee on staff by making them work shorter hours, while the government supplemented their incomes.  The program cost around 6 billion euros, according to the Federal Employment Agency, but it helped Germany avoid mass unemployment and ensured that German companies were at an advantage once the global economy picked up, since they had retained their skilled workforces.  By the time the Greek debt crisis hit in 2012, Germans had faith in their chancellor, trusting that she could handle the adversity.  Merkel took charge, creating giant funds to save not just Greece's economy but those of other debt-ridden Eurozone nations as well. Though Greece and other countries criticized what they saw as the draconian terms of their bailouts, Merkel likely saved the single currency.  "Europe will fail if the euro fails. Europe wins if the euro wins," Merkel told the German Bundestag in 2012.   "She has led Germany, Europe and, in parts, the rest of the world through an era of crises -- big crises -- which we never thought could happen in a Western democracy," says Bollmann.  But while Merkel is seen as a bold and accomplished crisis manager, critics say she risked alienating the conservative voter base of her own party, the CDU, by taking left-of-center positions on key topics including nuclear energy, foreign policy and immigration.   Merkel's government had initially halted Germany's planned exit from nuclear energy, but she reversed that decision in the wake of the Fukushima disaster in 2011. The move was popular with those on the left, but not necessarily with CDU supporters.  "The phenomenon of Angela Merkel is basically leading from behind," said Julian Reichelt, managing editor of Germany's largest daily tabloid newspaper, the right-leaning BILD. "You see where people are going and you follow the masses, you don't lead the masses. She was brilliant at doing that."   Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel speaks to delegates of her political party, the Christian Democratic Union, in 2018.Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel was born in Hamburg, West Germany, in 1954, but she grew up in East Germany. Her father, Horst Kasner, was a Lutheran minister and her mother, Herlind, was an English teacher.Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel, left, attends a New Year's Eve party with friends in Berlin in 1972. In 1977, at the age of 23, she married her first husband, Ulrich Merkel. They divorced in 1982, but she kept the name.Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel poses with her siblings, Marcus and Irene Kasner.Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel visits a children's home during her campaign to become a member of the Bundestag, Germany's parliament, in 1990. Before turning to politics, Merkel had trained as a physician. She was also a spokeswoman for the "Democratic Awakening," East Germany's opposition movement before reunification.Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesA month after being elected to the Bundestag, Merkel was appointed to Germany's Cabinet in January 1991. Chancellor Helmut Kohl named her Minister for Women and Youth.Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel looks at Kohl during a conference of the Christian Democratic Union, their political party, in 1991. At the time, Merkel was a deputy chairwoman for the party.Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel changed Cabinet positions in 1994, becoming Minister of the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety. Here, she visits a water-control station in Bad Honnef, Germany, in 1995.Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel, as the country's leader on environmental issues, irons wrapping paper to show how it can be recycled.Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel and Health Minister Horst Seehofer attend a Cabinet meeting in 1995.Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel sits in a "strandkorb," or beach basket, in an undated photo. In 2000, Merkel became the Christian Democratic Union's first female chairperson. It was the opposition party at the time.Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel, left, attends the opening of the Wagner Festival, an annual music festival in Bayreuth, Germany, in 2001.Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel spends part of her summer in Langballig, Germany, in 2002.Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel meets Russian President Vladimir Putin in 2002, one of many meetings they would have over the years. Merkel speaks Russian fluently, while Putin speaks German.Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel speaks in Nuremberg, Germany, ahead of federal elections in 2005.Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel is sworn in as Germany's first female chancellor in November 2005.Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel visits the White House in January 2006. A few days later she also visited the Kremlin in Russia.Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesUS President George W. Bush shows off a barrel of pickled herrings he was presented after arriving in Stralsund, Germany, in July 2006.Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel visits troops stationed in Turkey in February 2013. Later that year she was re-elected for a third term.Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel and her husband, Joachim Sauer, walk with US President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama before a dinner in Berlin in June 2013. Merkel and Sauer have been married since 1998.Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel speaks to Obama on the sidelines of a G7 summit near Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany, in June 2015.Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel was named Time magazine's Person of the Year in 2015. Time Editor-at-Large Karl Vick described her as "the de factos leader of the European Union" by virtue of being leader of the EU's largest and most economically powerful member state. Twice that year, he said, the EU had faced "existential crises" that Merkel had taken the lead in navigating -- first the Greek debt crisis faced by the eurozone, and then the ongoing migrant crisis.Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel and Obama test a virtual-reality headset at a trade fair in Hanover, Germany, in April 2016.Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel and US President Donald Trump hold a joint news conference at the White House in March 2017.Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel raises her glass during a toast at the Trudering Festival in Munich, Germany, in May 2017.Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel records her annual televised New Year's address in December 2017.Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesIn this photo provided by the German Government Press Office, Merkel talks with Trump as they are surrounded by other leaders at the G7 summit in June 2018. According to two senior diplomatic sources, the photo was taken when there was a difficult conversation taking place regarding the G7's communique and several issues the United States had leading up to it.Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel attends a Bundestag session in June 2018. She pressed lawmakers to back a tough but humane asylum and migration policy for the European Union.Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesIn this handout photo provided by the German Government Press Office in July 2018, Merkel meets a newborn calf during a visit to the Trede family dairy farm in Nienborstel, Germany.Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel offers flowers to Volker Bouffier, the state premier of Hesse and the deputy chairman of the Christian Democratic Union, ahead of a party leadership meeting in October 2018. The day before, her coalition government suffered heavy losses in a key regional election in Hesse.Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel speaks at a debate on the future of Europe during a plenary session at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France, in November 2018. Merkel made a call for a future European army and for a European Security Council that would centralize defense and security policy on the continent.Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel touches the scepter of a Carnival prince during the annual Carnival reception in Berlin in February 2019.Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel poses for photos with students as she visits a secondary school in Berlin in April 2019.Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel talks with European Council President Donald Tusk and British Prime Minister Theresa May at a roundtable meeting in Brussels, Belgium, in April 2019. May was in Brussels to formally present her case for a short Brexit delay.Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesBritain's Queen Elizabeth II, accompanied by Prime Minister Theresa May, greets Merkel in Portsmouth, England, in June 2019. It was ahead of an event marking the 75th anniversary of the D-Day invasion.Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel and new Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky inspect a military honor guard as he arrives for his first official visit to Germany in June 2019. Merkel was seen shaking during the ceremony, but she later suggested dehydration was to blame and said that she was doing "very well."Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesThe hands of Merkel and Finnish Prime Minister Antti Rinne are seen as they listen to national anthems in Berlin in July 2019. Merkel's body visibly shook again, raising concerns over her health. She said she was fine and that she has been "working through some things" since she was first seen shaking in June.Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesRaindrops cover the window of a car as Merkel arrives for the opening of the James-Simon-Galerie in Berlin in July 2019.Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesIn March 2020, Merkel delivered a rare televised message and told the German people that the coronavirus pandemic is the nation's gravest crisis since World War II.Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel attends a wreath-laying ceremony at the Neue Wache Memorial in Berlin in May 2020. It was the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe, otherwise known as Victory in Europe (VE) Day.Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel and other world leaders look over documents during a European Union summit in Brussels, Belgium, in July 2020. Leaders agreed to create a €750 billion ($858 billion) recovery fund to rebuild EU economies ravaged by the coronavirus crisis.Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel meets with US President Joe Biden at the White House in July 2021.Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel receives a medal from Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director-general of the World Health Organization, during the opening of the WHO Hub for Pandemic and Epidemic Intelligence in Berlin in September 2021. The new center's purpose is to better track world health threats and help prevent future ones.Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesMerkel feeds Australian lorikeets at the Marlow Bird Park in Marlow, Germany, in September 2021.Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: Angela Merkel's life in picturesA child gives Merkel a gingerbread heart with the inscription "Danke CDU," meaning "Thank you, CDU," during a Christian Democratic Union campaign event in Aachen, Germany, in September 2021. At left is Armin Laschet, Merkel's successor at the helm of the CDU, a long-time ally of the Chancellor and the party's deputy leader since 2012. He was one of the candidates who ran to replace her.Hide Caption 45 of 45 The same was often true in foreign policy, which saw Germany's role shrink, compared to the Schroeder years."Germany certainly punches below its weight when it comes to foreign policy," Reichelt told CNN. "Angela Merkel tried to ignore all major conflicts and problems all over the world as good as she could. She was one of the champions of ignoring all the problems that were so obvious in Afghanistan and which would obviously hit us after the withdrawal."  Arguably, Merkel's highest-profile moment of international leadership came in the summer of 2015 when hundreds of thousands of refugees, mostly displaced by the civil war in Syria, made their way to Europe.   While many of her fellow leaders across the European Union argued in favour of trying to stop the masses from entering thebloc, Merkel believed that the moment called for a huge humanitarian response.    "Germany is a strong country. We have achieved so much -- we can do it!" Merkel famously said at a press conference in 2015, opening her country's doors to the refugees. "We will manage this, and if something stands in the way, it must be overcome."  Angela Merkel poses for a selfie with Anas Modamani, a refugee from Syria on September 10, 2015 in Berlin, Germany. Germany eventually welcomed an estimated 1.2 million refugees over the next year and a half. Hajo Funke, a professor at Berlin's Freie University, believes opening Germany and Europe up to the influx of people in need was one of the greatest humanitarian acts in German history. "This was a golden hour of the post-World War II democracy. This is the legacy: To be non-nationalist," Funke told CNN.    In the wake of Merkel's call to action, many Germans welcomed the asylum seekers with food and clothes; some opened their homes to those who had made the arduous journey, or helped them find work.But the magic of the moment eventually wore off. Integrating the new arrivals was a tricky task some critics say was handled poorly.  Her handling of the refugee crisis put a dent in Merkel's popularity at home and helped fuel the rise of far-right political forces including the Alternative for Germany (AfD). The AfD became the first far-right group elected to the Bundestag since 1961. It came third in the 2017 election, with 12.6% of the vote.  While Merkel did win another term as chancellor, poor showings for her party at local elections convinced her it was time for change; in 2018 she announced that she would hand over the leadership of the CDU, and that she would not seek re-election in 2021.  But a new crisis soon came knocking.   In early 2020, when the Covid-19 pandemic hit, Merkel was one of the first world leaders to acknowledge the scale of the health threat posed by coronavirus.   "Since German unification, no, since the Second World War there has not been a challenge to our nation that required us to act in solidarity with one another so much," she said.  Merkel receives a medal from Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Director General of the World Health Organization, during the opening of a WHO hub in Berlin on September 1, 2021. Under her leadership, Germany quickly introduced a strict lockdown, reinstated the "Kurzarbeit" program to protect the economy, and helped launch the search for a vaccine.  Merkel's handling of the pandemic saw her popularity spike, as Germans once again learned to appreciate the dogged resolve of their often-underestimated leader.  Some are left doubting whether those lining up to take her place as chancellor will match up to their predecessor."The question is: Who's going to replace (Merkel), and will that person have the same charisma and ability that she did?" Ben Schreer, from the International Institute for Strategic Studies' (IISS) wondered in an interview with CNN earlier this week. "Allies are skeptical, and Germans as well are quite cautious in that regard."Laschet, Scholz and Baerbock can perhaps take some comfort from the fact that pundits and politicians alike once doubted Merkel's abilities too.As the politician who arrived on the scene as an inexperienced "Maedchen" prepares to leave the world stage, Germany's voters are left wondering who will fill the void left by the woman they came to know affectionately as "Mutti": the mother of the nation.