 (CNN)Meghan, Duchess of Sussex has given birth to a daughter, the second child for her and Prince Harry, the couple announced in a statement on Sunday."It is with great joy that Prince Harry and Meghan, The Duke and Duchess of Sussex, welcome their daughter, Lilibet 'Lili' Diana Mountbatten-Windsor, to the world," the statement said."Lili was born on Friday, June 4 at 11:40 a.m. in the trusted care of the doctors and staff at Santa Barbara Cottage Hospital," it said, adding that the new arrival weighed in at 7 pounds, 11 ounces (3.49 kilos) and that "both mother and child are healthy and well, and settling in at home.""Lili is named after her great-grandmother, Her Majesty The Queen, whose family nickname is Lilibet. Her middle name, Diana, was chosen to honor her beloved late grandmother, The Princess of Wales," the statement added.Baby Lili is a sister for the couple's 2-year-old son, Archie Harrison.Read MoreHarry, Meghan and their baby son, Archie, meet Archbishop Desmond Tutu during their royal tour of South Africa on September 25, 2019.In a message on their Archewell foundation website, Meghan and Harry said they had been "blessed" by their daughter's arrival."She is more than we could have ever imagined, and we remain grateful for the love and prayers we've felt from across the globe. Thank you for your continued kindness and support during this very special time for our family."Buckingham Palace released a statement Sunday on the baby girl's birth. "The Queen, The Prince of Wales and The Duchess of Cornwall, and The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have been informed and are delighted with the news of the birth of a daughter for The Duke and Duchess of Sussex," it read.The Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall along with the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge tweeted their congratulations. The US Embassy in London also congratulated the Sussexes, noting the news comes just in time for Father's Day.'Feeling of joy'Harry and Meghan revealed they were expecting a girl during their tell-all interview with Oprah Winfrey, broadcast in March.The newborn is the Queen's 11th great-grandchild. She is eighth in line to the throne behind her grandfather Charles, uncle William, his three children (George, Charlotte and Louis), her father Harry, and big brother Archie.The royal split, racism and family struggles: 11 things we learned from Harry and Meghan's explosive interviewHer birth in the United States makes her the most senior royal in the line of succession to have been born overseas. It also makes her a dual US-UK citizen, meaning that the youngest Sussex could potentially go on to become US President when she grows up -- while also being in line to the British throne.Meghan and Harry kept the pregnancy as private as possible, speaking just a handful of times about their daughter's impending arrival.One of those occasions was for a pre-recorded message from Meghan for the recent Vax Live concert in May, which she and Harry co-chaired."My husband and I are thrilled to soon be welcoming a daughter -- it's a feeling of joy we share with millions of other families around the world," the Duchess told the audience at the event, intended to promote Covid-19 vaccine equity and gender equality."When we think of her, we think of all the young women and girls around the globe who must be given the ability and support to lead us forward," she said. "Their future leadership depends on the decisions we make, and the actions we take now to set them up, and set all of us up, for a successful, equitable, and compassionate tomorrow."Meghan smiles while holding Archie alongside Harry during their trip to Cape Town, South Africa, on September 25, 2019.Pregnancy announcementThe royal couple announced back in February they were expecting an addition to their family, sharing a black-and-white snap of them gazing at each other, while Meghan cradled her baby bump.The photo was shot by Misan Harriman, a Nigerian-born British photographer and friend of the couple, who took the picture remotely from his London residence.The timing of their Valentine's Day announcement likely held special significance for the couple, coming almost exactly 37 years to the day after Prince Charles and Princess Diana revealed that they were expecting their second child: Prince Harry.Meghan and Harry are expecting a second childMeghan disclosed in an opinion piece for The New York Times that she suffered a miscarriage last summer.Their newborn daughter is entitled to be a Lady from birth, but will likely not use the title. When Archie Harrison was born in 2019, the Duke and Duchess opted to forgo titles and indicated they would not use his father's second peerage title, the Earl of Dumbarton.Neither of the Sussex children is currently eligible to use HRH titles, following the rules set out by George V in the 1917 Letters Patent. However, this will change when their grandfather Charles ascends to the throne. Photos: Britain's royal childrenQueen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip pose with seven of their great-grandchildren in this photo taken in 2018. The children, from left, are Prince George, Prince Louis, Princess Charlotte, Savannah Phillips, Isla Phillips, Lena Tindall and Mia Tindall.Hide Caption 1 of 19 Photos: Britain's royal childrenPrince George, the eldest son of Prince William and Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, attends a Christmas Day church service in 2019. George is third in line to the British throne, behind his father and his grandfather, Prince Charles.Hide Caption 2 of 19 Photos: Britain's royal childrenUS President Barack Obama talks to Prince George while visiting Kensington Palace in 2016.Hide Caption 3 of 19 Photos: Britain's royal childrenPrince George was born in London on July 23, 2013. He is the first of William and Kate's three children.Hide Caption 4 of 19 Photos: Britain's royal childrenPrincess Charlotte, William and Catherine's middle child and only daughter, is seen in this handout photo released on May 1, 2021, a day before her sixth birthday. She's fourth in line to the throne, behind her brother Prince George.Hide Caption 5 of 19 Photos: Britain's royal childrenPrincess Charlotte playfully sticks out her tongue while attending a King's Cup regatta with her mother, right, in 2019.Hide Caption 6 of 19 Photos: Britain's royal childrenCatherine holds newborn Princess Charlotte while speaking to the media outside a London hospital in 2015.Hide Caption 7 of 19 Photos: Britain's royal childrenPrince Louis, William and Kate's youngest son, rides his bicycle before leaving for his first day of nursery school in April 2021. Louis is fifth in line to the throne.Hide Caption 8 of 19 Photos: Britain's royal childrenPrince Louis is held at his christening in 2018.Hide Caption 9 of 19 Photos: Britain's royal childrenWilliam and Catherine leave the hospital with Prince Louis after his birth in 2018.Hide Caption 10 of 19 Photos: Britain's royal childrenPrince Harry and his wife Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, visit South Africa with their son, Archie, in 2019. Archie is seventh in line to the throne, just behind his father.Hide Caption 11 of 19 Photos: Britain's royal childrenArchie Harrison Mountbatten-Windsor was born in May 2019.Hide Caption 12 of 19 Photos: Britain's royal childrenPrincess Eugenie and her husband, Jack Brooksbank, hold their newborn son, August, in February 2021. August is 11th in line to the throne, behind his mother, his aunt Princess Beatrice and his grandfather, Prince Andrew.Hide Caption 13 of 19 Photos: Britain's royal childrenThe Queen's son Prince Edward poses with his son, James, Viscount Severn, in September 2020. Prince Edward and his wife Sophie, the Countess of Wessex, have two children: James and Lady Louise Mountbatten-Windsor.Hide Caption 14 of 19 Photos: Britain's royal childrenLady Louise, the elder child of Prince Edward and Sophie, Countess of Wessex, turns 18 in November 2021.Hide Caption 15 of 19 Photos: Britain's royal childrenCousins Mia Tindall, left, and Savannah Phillips attend the wedding of Princess Eugenie in 2018. Mia and Savannah are two grandchildren of the Queen's only daughter, Princess Anne. Mia is one of three children born to Mike and Zara Tindall. Savannah is one of two children born to Peter and Autumn Phillips.Hide Caption 16 of 19 Photos: Britain's royal childrenIsla Phillips, Savannah's sister, plays on an inflatable slide during a festival in 2018.Hide Caption 17 of 19 Photos: Britain's royal childrenMia Tindall attends the Gatcombe Horse Trials in March 2019.Hide Caption 18 of 19 Photos: Britain's royal childrenZara Tindall's younger daughter, Lena, is seen in 2019. Zara gave birth to another child, Lucas, in March 2021. Lucas is the youngest of the Queen's 10 great-grandchildren.Hide Caption 19 of 19As for the question of whether Archie and his baby sister will be joined by more siblings in the future, that doesn't seem to be on the cards right now. Harry revealed that he and his wife are likely to keep their brood limited to "two, maximum" while discussing the Earth's dwindling resources with activist and chimpanzee expert Jane Goodall for a special edition of British Vogue last July.Harry and Meghan were married in a lavish wedding at St. George's Chapel in Windsor, England, three years ago. They stepped back from their roles as senior working royals last year, relinquishing their HRH titles, and now live in Santa Barbara, California.The private neighborhoodHarry and Meghan settled into their Santa Barbara home last July, according to August reports from People magazine. "They have settled into the quiet privacy of their community since their arrival and hope that this will be respected for their neighbors, as well as for them as a family," a representative for the family told the magazine in August 2020. Richard Mineards, a columnist for Montecito Journal who covered the royals for 45 years, told CNN on Sunday that the area where they live is very "grand ... with very large estates" and it does not have issues with paparazzi. "I mean, Oprah Winfrey, Ellen DeGeneres, Oscar winner Jeff Bridges, Oscar winner Kevin Costner (and) George Lucas live just down the road," Mineards said. "We are a celebrity community." The community also has "very wealthy people" such as tech billionaires, he said. "You name it, we have it," he said. 